SurveySANS 2022 Cyber 
Threat Intelligence 
SurveyWritten by Rebekah Brown and Pasquale StirparoFebruary 20222022 SANS InstituteExecutive SummaryTwo major cybersecurity events that showcased the role of cyber threat intelligence (CTI)in network security operations bookended this years survey. The SolarWinds softwaresupply chain attack1 broke as we finished up the 2021 survey, and the Log4j vulnerabilityresponse process2 was in full swing as we worked to wrap up the 2022 survey. Both eventshighlighted the need to rapidly gain situational awareness, contextualize vast amounts ofshared information, and prioritize remediation of significant threats. The 2022 SANS CTIsurvey shows that many CTI programs can meet the challenge. While some programs arejust getting started due to increased cybersecurity needs and a growing, complex threatenvironment brought on by the rapid shift to remote work, organizations can rely on CTIproviders and information\-sharing groups to fill in gaps as their programs mature.Key takeaways:More organizations are beginning to develop their CTI capabilities, with anincreasing number of respondents reporting that they are early on their CTIjourney and still developing processes and going through the same growing painsthat many robust CTI programs previously faced.Several promising trends from past years, such as collaboration between CTI teamsand business operations groups, have been in decline since the shift to remotework in response to the COVID\-19 pandemic. It takes effort to build bridges, andorganizations may find coordination that was already not as intuitive or ingrainedwhen organizations were primarily in person even more difficult now.Quite an important percentage of respondents, 21%, said that they could notmeasure whether their CTI program was indeed useful and valuable to theirorganizations. This result highlights the need for more and better ways tomeasure the effectiveness of CTI programs, the tools, and the sources, a call toaction for both practitioners and vendors alike to find better and easier ways tomeasure CTI success.Threat intelligence platforms are still not the main tool used by CTI teamsnotin the top fourwith spreadsheetsemails leading the way once again, whileone out of two respondents still prefers homegrown CTI platforms. Reasonsbehind this may differ, but vendors can certainly improve analysts experiences bycontinuing to understand use cases and share more of the requirements betweenpractitioners and vendors. However, the encouraging trend in response to this isthe small increase in commercial and open source CTI management platforms withregard to automationintegration.1A Worst Nightmare Cyberattack: The Untold Story Of The SolarWinds Hack,www.npr.org20210416985439655a\-worst\-nightmare\-cyberattack\-the\-untold\-story\-of\-the\-solarwinds\-hack2Apache Log4j Vulnerability Guidance, www.cisa.govuscertapache\-log4j\-vulnerability\-guidanceSANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey2This year we had representatives from more than 200 organizations participate in ourCyber Threat Intelligence Survey. These organizations spanned multiple sectors and wereof various sizes, but we did see some interesting trends in responses this year. First, wesaw a significant increase in respondents in the education sector, who made up 10%of respondents this year as opposed to 3% last year, likely due to more educationalinstitutions working online. As with previous years, respondents came from organizationscomprising fewer than 10,000 people. Last years survey highlighted some of the impactsof the shift to remote working and schooling and the increased need for cybersecurityand threat intelligence staff at organizations that may not traditionally have had adedicated staff. As many organizations, including many in the education sector, continueto have a remote or hybrid presence, hopefully their staff will continue to grow, and wewill see reflections of the field expanding reflected in future surveys. Figure 1 provides asnapshot of the demographics for the respondents to the 2022 survey.Top 4 Industries RepresentedOrganizational SizeBanking and 
fi nanceGovernmentCybersecurity 
service providerEducationEach gear represents 5 respondents.Small
(Up to 1,000\)SmallMedium
(1,0015,000\)Medium
(5,00115,000\)MediumLarge
(15,00150,000\)Large
(More than 50,000\)Operations and HeadquartersEach building represents 10 respondents.Ops: 63
HQ:10Ops: 79
HQ:13Ops: 101
HQ:48Top 4 Roles RepresentedSecurity operations
Security analystCTI analystOps: 154
HQ:130Ops: 47
HQ:5Security manager or 
directorOps: 53
HQ:5Ops: 31
HQ:4Ops: 40
HQ:7Incident responderEach person represents 5 respondents.Figure 1\. Demographics of Survey RespondentsSANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey3CTI People and ProcessesCTI is analyzed information about the intent, capabilities, and opportunities leveraged byadversaries targeting computer networks. CTI can be generated by an organization thatanalyzes its own data about previous data breaches or network intrusions. Organizationscan also consume it based on external sources such as threat intelligence vendors orinformation\-sharing groups. Often organizations use a combination of the two types:harnessing the power of their internal data while relying on outside expertise to provide amore robust picture of the overall threat landscape. Regardless of where the informationcomes from, organizations need people and processes to integrate findings and insightsinto their cybersecurity programs. This years survey shows an increase in collaborationbetween internal threat intelligence teams and CTI vendors, with more organizations bothanalyzing their own threat data and utilizing external support for CTI programs.It Takes Teamwork to Make the Dream WorkIn its early days, many believed that only large organizations with existing robustcybersecurity teams in place utilized CTI. Since 2019, we have seen that more and moreorganizations are leveraging threat intelligence capabilities, whether or not they havea dedicated team devoted to CTI. This year, 33% of respondents work for organizationswith fewer than 1,000 employees. While respondents reported a consistent trend in thepresence of purely in\-house capabilities, which holds steady at36% year over year, there was an increase in reports of service\-provider support for threat intelligence teams, which is theAre your CTI functions and activities handled in\-house,
by a service provider, or through a combination of the two?highest it has been since 2017\. From 2021 to 2022, service provider0\.5%support increased 5%. Although this increase indicates thatmany organizations are building out more robust capabilitiesin response to an increased online presence, it is important tonote that those capabilities are not mutually exclusive. Manyorganizations with a CTI team on staff or with the task of CTIspread out across other teams also work with external teams forsupport for everything from strategic threat modeling to tacticalthreat detection. In fact, more than half (51%) of respondentsreported that their organization uses a hybrid model with both in\-house capabilities and external support. See Figure 2\.51\.3%36\.1%12\.0%In\-houseService providerCombination of bothOtherFigure 2\. In\-House Versus Service ProviderSANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey4Team Structure and OrganizationWhen it comes to in\-house teams, organizations with formaldedicated threat intelligence teams continue to grow; it is upto 47% this year, after a brief drop in 2021 (see Figure 3\).However, organizations reporting that they have no formalCTI team and no plans to create one also increased thisyearthe percentage actually aligns with the increase inservice provider support mentioned earlier. This indicatesthat organizations continue to see the value of CTI but arecomfortable outsourcing it. Although we have not seenthis trend in the past few years, it speaks to the evolutionand accessibility of managed threat intelligence providersand their ability to supportorganizations of different sizesCTI Threats in 202250%40%30%20%10%0%Year\-over\-Year Growth in Formal Teams49\.5%44\.4%47\.0%41\.5%41\.1%201820192020202120222023Figure 3\. Organizational CTI Resourcesand maturity levels.In past years, surveyrespondents reported that themajority of analysts on a CTIteam or handling CTI functionscame from a security operationscenter (SOC) role. This year wesee that number drop to 47%,with the difference spreadacross the other teams, with1%2% in each of the otherIn this years survey, we heard a great deal about the types of threats that keep CTI analysts 
and their leadership up at night. While all organizations will have slightly different threat 
models and priorities, we picked up on some trends in the industry.Email\-Based ThreatsEmail remains a significant entry point for adversaries into a network. Several respondents 
reported that many of their CTI processes focus on email\-based threats. Some proactively work 
using filters to block malicious emails, and some focus on raising awareness of employees 
regarding phishing campaigns. Examples from our respondents include:We have shared new variants of malicious email attachments and novel phishing email 
techniques in a security forum. Survey RespondentConstant monitoring of email and malware threats that are seen globally. Using that 
information to add additional protection to systems. Survey Respondentareas (aside from businessRansomware Threatsgroups, which decreased).Responses to the question alsoindicate that organizations arehiring more analysts directlyinto CTI roles instead of pullingthem from elsewhere on thesecurity team, emphasizingthe professionalization of thefield. Several respondents alsoreported that they brought CTIanalysts in from cybercrime andfraud teams, highlighting howa team with diverse experienceacross the threat landscape canhelp an organization respond toa wide variety of threats.Ransomware is high on everyones list of concerns this year, with actors targeting organizations 
large and small. Another concern is the interconnected nature of networks with contractors, 
vendors, and other dependencies that could adversely impact an organization even if it is not 
directly compromised. Because email introduces many ransomware threats, many of the tactics 
mentioned above are directly aimed at preventing ransomware from entering a system. Other 
ways CTI works to mitigate this threat include:Identifying third party vendors impacted by ransomware and taking action to mitigate their 
access to our data and infrastructure. Survey RespondentThreats to Reputation or BrandYou know you have made it in this field when public relations wants to talk to the CTI team. 
With both ransomware and misinformation on the rise, organizations have a lot to lose with 
even the perception of a security breach that impacts customer data. In addition to intrusions 
targeting sensitive user or company data, organizations must prepare for attacks attempting to 
hijack the social media accounts of executives as well as the spread of misinformation about 
companies with the goal of damaging brand reputation.For media companies, we specifically monitor for external threat actors (action groups, hacker 
collectives, foreign governments) and their targeting of social media. Survey RespondentSANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey5CTI Processes: The Intelligence ProcessFor CTI teams to operate consistently among team members, it is important to haveprocesses and frameworks in place as a scaffolding against which team members canperform analytic work. One of the foundational processes in CTI is the intelligenceprocess, also known as the intelligence cycle. Both process and cycle are acceptableterms, although cycle often refers to a cyclical process, where when you move on tothe next step you do not return to that step until the cycle has made a full rotation. Inintelligence, you may move forward from one step to the next, or you may realize that youneed to go backward to gain more clarity or get more information before you can proceedforward again.For the first time, we have been able to capture insights from the 2022 CTI surveyacross all aspects of the intelligence process, including requirements, collection, dataexploitation, analysis, and dissemination.Defining CTI RequirementsThe intelligence process starts with understanding the requirements for the CTI workthat a team or individual is tasked with. Once organizations identify these requirements,analysts can focus on answering the key questions of decision makers and can optimizetheir remaining processes as much as possible. This year, fewer respondents reportedthat their organizations have formal requirements, and a there was a 5% increase inorganizations without plans to develop requirements. See Table 1\.Although fewer organizations reporthaving formalized requirements,the organizations that do haverequirements are making it a priority toupdate them. Only 3% of respondentsreported that their requirements havenever been updated. Ad hoc is stillTable 1\. Intelligence Requirements Year over YearYes, we have documented intelligence requirements.30\.3%No, our requirements are ad hoc.No, but we plan to define them.No, and we have no plans to formalize requirements.37\.0%26\.0%6\.7%2019202043\.8%29\.7%20\.4%6\.1%202139\.0%36\.1%18\.8%6\.1%202235\.4%33\.5%20\.1%11\.0%the most frequent cadence for updating, with just over40% having reported that they have no schedule or planfor updating requirements and that they are updated asneeded. See Figure 4\.Although it can sometimes seem unimportant to plan atime to update requirements, having something scheduledeven just an annual reviewhelps keep the idea thatrequirements are not static top of mind.40%30%20%10%0%How often does your organization review
and update its CTI requirements? Select the best answer.40\.2%11\.5%13\.8%16\.1%14\.9%3\.4%NeverWeeklyMonthlyYearlyAd hocUnknownFigure 4\. Reviewing and Updating CTI RequirementsSANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey6What type of information do you consider to be part of your
intelligence gathering? Select all that apply.In addition to having formal requirementsthat get updated periodically, it is also abest practice to include all CTI programstakeholders in the development of theserequirements. This year, respondents reportedthat security operations is the team thatExternal sources such as media reports and newsThreat feeds from CTI\-specific vendorsVulnerability datacontributes most to requirements, with 75%Open source or public CTI feedsof respondents reporting their participation.The examples of CTI uses and analysis,Community or industry groups such as information 
sharing and analysis centers (ISACs) and 
computer emergency readiness teams (CERTs)covered later in this report, indicate that manyorganizations are directly engaged in supportThreat feeds from general security vendorsSecurity data gathered from our IDS, firewall, 
endpoint, and other security systemsto security operations, and that even thoughIncident response and live forensics81\.9%72\.9%72\.3%71\.7%66\.9%65\.7%57\.8%54\.8%54\.8%they may not have formal requirements,they are working directly to support theirstakeholders, which represents a great step inthe right direction.CTI CollectionOnce a team has requirements it wants toaddress, the next step requires that theystart collecting the information needed. Thisyear, more CTI teams are leveraging externalreporting sources such as media reports andnews (up to 82% from 77% in 2021\). With thenumber of major intrusions and adversaryactivity breaking in the news, CTI teams cannotignore this type of reporting. See Figure 5\.SIEM platformOther formal and informal groups 
with a shared interestApplication logsNetwork traffic analysis packet and flowClosed or dark web sourcesSecurity analytics platform other than SIEMForensics (postmortem)Shared spreadsheets andor emailHoneypot dataUser behavior dataOther4\.8%46\.4%45\.8%44\.0%37\.3%33\.1%31\.9%27\.7%25\.3%24\.7%0%20%40%60%80%Figure 5\. Sources of Intelligence GatheringCommunity feeds decreased, butinformation from respondents ownnetworks (such as IDS logs andapplication logs) increased.CTI AnalysisWe are so excited that we could addquestions about CTI analysis into thisyears survey. Analysis is complicatedand an often individualized processand can be difficult to capture ina survey question, but through acombination of multiple choice andwrite\-in responses we put togethera good view of how organizationsconduct CTI analysis.Coordinating with Incident RespondersThis years survey responses indicate a brief shift away from incident response (IR) and 
CTI collaboration. IR teams contributed less to requirements than last year, and forensics 
contributes less to data collection. While it is difficult to pinpoint the exact reason behind 
this shift, the data from this survey points at two contributors. First, many respondents 
this year are newer CTI organizations who are just developing their capabilities. CTI and 
IR coordination is a critical part of an overall cybersecurity program, but it takes some 
time to build both the processes and trust that facilitate robust collaboration. If you are 
a new CTI program just getting started, make sure to make connections with your IR team, 
whether in\-house or external, to establish connections. You will find it much easier to 
establish communications before a large\-scale incident hits.The second contributor to this is likely the fact that the past year has been incredibly 
difficult for IR teams and CTI teams as well. We had fewer respondents this year than in 
past years, likely due to heavy workloads and higher\-than\-is\-healthy levels of burnout 
in the field. Last years survey touched a bit on the mental health impact of remote 
work and isolation, and those impacts have likely been increasing with the number and 
severity of significant security incidents across the profession. IR teams: Take care of 
yourselves and each other, and we hope to see you back in next years survey.SANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey7The most frequently used analytic method wasintuitive or experience\-based judgment. In fact,only 16% said that they never leverage thismethod (see Figure 6\). Conceptual models, suchas the diamond model for intrusion and analysis(kill chain models are also frequently used), withseveral respondents specifically identifying theMITRE ATT\&CK framework as a model they havefound significantly valuable.Organizations use structured analytic techniques(SATs), a mainstay of traditional intelligencereporting that they never use them, and only19% reporting that they frequently use them.Organizations do not commonly use SATsbecause, unlike conceptual models, very few CTIanalysis tools or platforms have integrated thesemethods into their workflows. Instead, tools morecommonly directly allow an analyst to categorizeWhat methods are leveraged in CTI analysis?
For each of the following methods, indicate if they are used frequently, used 
occasionally, or not used. Used frequently Used occasionally Not usedUse of conceptual models 
such as the diamond model, 
kill chain methodology, 
or target\-centric modelsUse of structured analytic 
techniques, such as 
key assumptions check, 
clustering, or analysis of 
competing hypothesis (ACH)Systems analysis methodsInductive reasoning
Graph\-driven analysisIntuitive or experience\-
based judgement19\.5%18\.6%23\.7%26\.3%28\.0%32\.2%43\.2%40\.7%33\.1%39\.8%44\.1%22\.0%23\.7%16\.1%27\.1%38\.1%30\.5%50\.8%Other5\.1%6\.8%11\.0%0%10%20%30%40%50%Figure 6\. Leveraging Methods of 
CTI Analysisanalysis, the least, with 33% of respondentsThreat modelingor tag data by kill chain phase or diamond model axis, whereas the few productized SATsare often standalone tools, such as tools made specifically for one of the more popularSATs: analysis of competing hypothesis (ACH). SATs prove valuable for addressing biasesin analysis and removing occurrences such as group think and for analysis. Increasedintegration of some of these techniques into tools used for CTI may make it easier for CTIteams to leverage them.CTI DisseminationOnce CTI has made it through the intelligence process all the way through analysis,the intelligence needs to get to the right audience in a timely manner. Intelligencedissemination varies depending on thetype and urgency of the information.This year, respondents reported emaileddocuments as the most common waythey disseminate CTI, followed by reports.Both of these indicate a narrative form ofthreat intelligence dissemination ratherthan just technical pieces of informationsuch as IP addresses and domains. SeeFigure 7\.How is CTI information utilized or disseminated by your organization?
Select all that apply.Email or documents such as 
spreadsheets or PowerPointReportsIntegration with threat intelligence platforms 
(commercial, open source, or homegrown)BriefingsOther4\.1%73\.6%62\.0%55\.4%54\.5%0%20%40%60%80%A high demand still exists for this type of technical\-level dissemination, with 55% ofrespondents indicating that they integrate directly with threat intelligence platforms tofacilitate tasks such as threat hunting, email filtering, and malware detection.Figure 7\. Utilization and 
Dissemination of CTISANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey8As with many things in the CTI space, dissemination depends on several factors, includingthe situation itself. One respondent articulated this point very well, identifying that thereare standard processes and then processes to escalate to a wider audience when needed:Post\-analysis intelligence is disseminated to team leads to further dissemination asrequired to their teams. In the event it is determined a wider audience is required,department heads are brought in. During large\-scale events that have the potential toaffect the organization as a whole, briefings are created for the C\-staff andor board.Survey RespondentThis years survey showed a promising trend when it comes to people and processes:More organizations are beginning to implement threat intelligence capabilities in theirorganizations. Although those organizations are in the early stages of development,the field of CTI has come a long way since SANS first began surveying CTI professionals,and these organizations will have a wealth of information to help them on their way tosuccessful programs.Uses and Value of CTIThreat intelligence has many different uses within an organization, from tactical tostrategic, from supporting the risk\-assessment team to helping prioritize patching. Also,depending on the maturity level of each organization, one can go from simply consumingintelligence to full production.As expected, and as it normally should be, mostorganizations are consumers of intelligence. Fromour respondents, the types of intelligence consumedare mostly published threat intelligence (58%) andcontextual threat alerts (50%), but a significant numberalso consume raw threat data (48%). We could expectthis, because the number of organizations with a highermaturity level and with the need to produce intelligenceshould indeed be lower. See Figure 8\.What is interesting though, and a sign that CTI as aIndicate whether your organization produces
or consumes CTI in terms of raw data, contextual threat alerts,
andor published threat intelligence reports. Raw threat data Contextual threat alerts Published threat intelligence12\.8%
11\.7%5\.6%ProduceConsumeBoth47\.8%50\.0%58\.3%32\.8%35\.6%33\.3%0%10%20%30%40%50%60%Figure 8\. Production Versus 
Consumption of CTIdiscipline is growing and maturing, is the number of organizations that both consumeand produce intelligence, with answers between 33%36% across the three types ofintelligence proposed.With regard to consumption, it is always interesting to see the variety of uses of CTI acrossorganizations. Mitigation is one of the most frequent use cases, with several respondentscrediting CTI with helping assess and prioritize patching when new vulnerabilities areannounced (as well as detection and threat hunting based on published reports andIoCs). Finally, security awareness for staff, including training and ongoing situationalawareness for the C\-suite, is a very common use case. All these answers reinforce thenotion of relevance and applicability of CTI to the specificity of an organization, as wellas the need to be able, for those who do, to produce different types of threat intelligenceproductsoutputs.SANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey9Value and Usefulness of CTI TypesOne of the main reasons to have a threat intelligence program in a company is toimprove the overall security posture of the company and to help other teams make betterdecisions (whether about responding to an incident or about assessing the risk exposureof the organization).When asked whether CTI has improved the security prevention, detection, and response oftheir organization, 75% of respondents confirmed this was the case, and this result alignswith previous years as well. However, aside from this positive trend, 21% of respondentssaid that they do not know. This is an important result to note because it may highlightthe need for more and better ways to measure the effectiveness of CTI programs, thetools, and the sources. Not being able to measure the value of something is what couldeventually be the end of it, as teams wont be able to justify the need for more resources,new people, new tools, etc. This is a call toaction for both practitioners and vendors alike,to find better and easier ways to measuresuccess in CTI.We have already said that CTI has multipletypes and formats, and we wanted tounderstand what type of threat intelligencerespondents find most useful now as well aswhat they might find helpful in the next 12months.According to our respondents, technicalinformation about malware attackers use(81%) and information about current targetedvulnerabilities (80%) represent the two mostuseful types of CTI currently. This is consistentwith 2021 results, except the two positionshave switched. When considering the future,52% of respondents think that more detailedand timely information about adversary groupsin their industry and geography will provemost useful. Timeliness and relevance areWhat types of CTI are currently most useful to your operations? 
What would be most useful in the future? Select all that apply. Current Next 12 monthsBroad information about attacker trendsThreat alerts and attack indicators specific to 
your brand, VIPs, and intellectual property (IP)34\.5%32\.8%79\.0%72\.3%Detailed and timely information about adversary 
groups in your industry and geography64\.7%52\.1%Detailed information about malware 
being used in attacks37\.8%Specific threat behaviors and tactics, techniques, 
and procedures (TTPs) of adversariesInformation about who the threat actors are or 
who performed the attack (true attribution)Information about how stolen information 
is being monetized or used by attackersInformation about vulnerabilities 
being targeted by attackersSpecific IoCs to plug into IT and security 
infrastructure to block or to find attacks42\.0%49\.6%47\.1%52\.9%41\.2%35\.3%40\.3%80\.7%78\.2%79\.8%73\.1%Other4\.2%
5\.0%0%20%40%60%80%Figure 9\. Most Useful CTIindeed key to intelligence, and while respondents are asking for more of it, which is good,a positive sign is that the satisfaction with context (from 59% to 61%), analytics (from 52%to 55%), and relevance (from 66% to 67%) of CTI data has increased from last year. Theserepresent small improvements but are a positive sign nevertheless. See Figure 9\.Two things have slightly decreased in terms of satisfaction: strategic reporting andsearching and reporting.Finally, confirming the trend from the previous year, respondents were still mostly notsatisfied with the removal of expired IOC, a common problem that can lead to numerousfalse positives.SANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey10CTI ToolsAnalysts always find the tools topic contentious, with threat intelligence platforms (TIPs)representing both the instrument to accelerate and enhance the intelligence cycle as wellas sometimes a source of pain and frustration for the analysts. The tools should supportautomation and scaling. After all, with the amount of data to correlate and analyze daily,it would be unthinkable not to have such features integrated. It is important to servedifferent type of customers (including internal ones, like SOC, IR teams, etc.) but also allowenough room for the analysis itself, the human aspect that cannot be taken out of theloop completely (no matter what).First we asked what type of management tools our respondents use to aggregate, analyze,or present CTI information. Unsurprisingly, spreadsheetsemails held No. 1 place again,with 44% of respondents saying they use these forms manuallyindependently. However,if we look at what tools organizations use the most to support some level of automationintegration, SIEM (40%) and network traffic analysis tools (38%) are the favoritetechnologies. These results seem to remain consistent across the years.We want to note a couple of interesting points about this specific topic. The first is thatTIPs are not the main tool used by CTI teams yet; among the top four tools used, none isa CTI platform. The second striking result is that more than one in two CTI practitioners(56%) uses a homegrown CTI platform, which is a sign that should not be underestimated.Vendors can certainly improve the analysts experience in this area by continuing tounderstand use cases and share more of the requirements between practitioners andvendors. In addition, CTI teams should really focus on what their core requirements are toconfirm whether a custom homegrown CTI platform is really the answer.However, consider this encouraging trend regardingthe point above: Since 2021, the use of commercialand open source CTI management platforms withsome automationintegration has grown from 35%and 30%, respectively, to 37% for both. This increasein adoption is a good sign that the developmentof such platforms is recognizing analyst needs andrequirements more and more. Although much workremains to be done, the industry seems headed inthe right direction.With regard to processing of informationwiththe expected exception for reversing engineeringof malware samples, for which the majority ofrespondents indicating manual processing (41%)every other type of processing has a low percentageof responses towards full automation (15% onWhat processing is done to CTI information to make it more usable? 
Select all that apply and indicate if the process is manual,
semi\-automated, or fully automated. Manual Semi\-automated Fully automatedDe\-duplication of 
informationEnrichment of information 
using external public 
data sources
Enrichment of information 
using external 
commercial sourcesEnrichment of information 
using internal data sources25\.9%30\.2%27\.6%32\.8%35\.3%18\.1%15\.5%17\.2%16\.4%Reverse engineering 
of malware samples9\.5%24\.1%41\.4%44\.0%40\.5%40\.5%Standardizing information 
into a common format13\.8%30\.2%38\.8%0%10%20%30%40%50%Figure 10\. CTI Processingaverage across all responses). All other responses have been toward semi\-automation, withmanual processing still getting very high numbers (roughly 30% on average). See Figure 10\.SANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey11Even though correlation does not imply causation, if we look at this data in light of theprevious point, we can see that the need exists for more automation. So, CTI platformsthat offer more automation may help their adoption rates, and increased automationmay help CTI teams reduce the amount of manual and semi\-manual processing (whichis still high).Finally, the importance of integrating the many different tools usednot only the toolsused by the CTI teams themselves but also by the others like SOC, IR, vulnerability team,etc.is paramount today. In this regard, the first result is that only 46% of respondentsintegrate their threat intelligence within their defense and response systems. This is notgreat, as we would all hope to see a much higher number, but the good news is that thisrepresents a significant increase from the 41% of last year. Indeed, this positive trendreinforces all responses received about tools: We still have a long way to go, but thedirection seems to be right.Organizations integrate CTI information into defense and response systems mostcommonly via CTI platform (67% of respondents), followed by intelligence serviceproviders (59%) and vendor APIs (45%). Again, this shows that vendors currently play animportant role in making such integration happen.Moving ForwardCTI requires both collaboration and communication. Although it appears that the shift toremote work, increased threats, and high workloads impacted some key components ofcollaboration over the past two years, organizations can address these factors by bothprocesses and tools. Organizations should assess whether they have lost communicationchannels with key stakeholders and should identify ways to build up those channelsagain. In some cases, organizations may need additional tools to facilitate collaboration.Many CTI tools, such as TIPs, have built\-in collaboration functionalities that teams canexplore to see if they fit with existing processes and workflowsand dont be afraid tomake new processes. Many CTI teams have gone through a lot of changes, and it is naturalto adjust to what will work in current situations.This years survey dove into specifics of analysis, finding that many analysts leverage theanalytic models and frameworks such as the diamond model and ATT\&CK. Models andframeworks are easiest to use when directly integrated into the tools that analysts useevery day. Thats not to say that a diamond model markup on a whiteboard isnt a solidway to conduct analysis, but it is much easier to capture, share, and replicate findingswhen they are easily captured. If your organization is one of the 55% using a homegrownCTI platform, consider integrating the models you use most often, or the ones you wouldlike the teams to begin to use more. Those building and maintaining commercial platformsshould continue to identify models that customers find useful and provide resources forthose (while remembering that analysis is rarely one\-size\-fits\-all). Having more than oneoption for models will allow analysts to apply the right frameworks to the right situations.And while were at it, lets integrate some structured analytic techniques as well!SANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey12Discussions about tooling are always a hot topic in InfoSec, and CTI is no exception.The discourse around TIPs has been going on for a while, as on one side practitionersdevelop new and better requirements, and on the other side vendors come up with newfunctionalities to meet them. As we saw from the survey, TIPs are still not in the top threetools used by CTI teams, and half of the respondents use some sort of homegrown CTIplatform. Moreover, most of the processing is still done manually, with a low percentagebeing able to go full automation. Even though the use of automation and integration incommercial and open source CTI management platforms has increased, representing apositive trend with the development of such platforms, this is a strong signal that shouldnot be underestimated. This is an area where CTI vendors can improve the experience ofanalysts by continuing to better understand their use cases and requirements and, mostlydrastically, by increasing automation. Considering the number of different data formatsand the increasing volume of such data the industry is dealing with, higher automation inprocessing and correlation is the way to go.If you cant measure something, you cant improve it. One interesting takeaway camefrom asking our respondents if CTI has improved their security (preventiondetectionresponse). Even though in a descending trend, a high percentage of organizations stillcannot measure the effectiveness of CTI programs, the tools, and the sources. Measuringthe value of an intelligence program means that teams will be able to justify the needfor more resources, new people, new tools, etc ideally moving organizations, and inturn the industry, toward a higher maturity level. This represents a call to action for bothpractitioners and vendors alike to find better and easier ways to measure success in CTI.SponsorsSANS would like to thank this surveys sponsors:SANS 2022 Cyber Threat Intelligence Survey13