A SANS Survey2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence 
(CTI) SurveyWritten by Robert M. LeeFebruary 2020Sponsored by:Recorded Future2020 SANS InstituteExecutive SummaryCyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) is analyzed information about the capabilities,opportunities and intent of adversaries that meets a specific requirement determinedby a stakeholder. Organizations with CTIprograms focus on understanding the threatsTAKEAWAYSthey face and providing specific informationto help defend against those threats. Inthe past few years, CTI has evolved fromsmall, ad\-hoc tasks performed disparatelyacross an organization to, in many cases,robust programs with their own staff, toolsand processes that support the entireorganization. 2020 was a big year for theSANS CTI Survey, with a record number ofrespondents and the highest ever reporting ofCTI programs within organizations, with 1,006responding to the survey in 2020 and just 505responding in 2019\.1 Some areas leveled outafter years of growthsuch as implementationof threat intelligence platforms and a focuson tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs)over just indicators of compromise (IoCs)andsome areas continued to grow both in numberand variety, such as the types of data beingused to generate intelligence. As the fieldsettles into its new maturity, understandingand improving the effectiveness of CTIprograms will become even more critical.With that in mind, SANS asked respondentsCollaboration is key. While the number of organizations with dedicated 
threat intelligence teams is growing, we continue to see an emphasis 
on partnering with others, whether through a paid service provider 
relationship or through information\-sharing groups or programs. In addition, 
collaboration within organizations is also on the rise, with many respondents 
reporting that their CTI teams are part of a coordinated effort across the 
organization.Not all processes require the same level of automation. Semi\-automationmay be the gold standard when it comes to data processing, even for some 
tasks that are often considered redundant, such as data deduplication, 
because such information is sometimes useful to analysts.The necessary data and tools change as CTI teams evolve. As moreorganizations begin to produce their own intelligence, the nature of 
information that CTI analysts require is also shifting from primarily threat\-
feed or vendor\-provided information to data from internal tools and teams. 
While many of the same tools and processes can be used to handle this type 
of information, organizations also must determine how this changes their 
need for tools handling this data.Requirements are taking hold and are a staple of mature teams.Requirements are a key part of the intelligence process and help to ensure 
a focus on collection and analysis efforts by analysts as well as proper 
production of intelligence. This makes the intelligence process more 
efficient, effective and measurablekeys to long\-term success. Last year, 
a minority of organizations reported that they had clearly defined and 
documented intelligence requirements, which was highlighted as a key 
recommendation for organizations. This year, nearly half of respondents 
answered that they have defined and documented intelligence requirements. 
This is a fantastic jump in the data and is an encouragement to anyone who 
is seeking to add defined and documented intelligence requirements into 
their CTI program.to weigh in on how their programs measureA community of consumers and producers contribute to CTI. Moreeffectiveness, an area that CTI programs mustcontinue to improve on in the coming years.organizations consume intelligence than produce it (as we would expect), 
but more than 40% of respondents both produce and consume intelligence. 
This is a great indicator of the growing maturity and professionalization 
of the cyber threat intelligence field. Organizations that have trouble 
satisfying a majority of their intelligence requirementsbecause they are 
only consuming intelligence or are missing any of their priority intelligence 
requirementsshould consider moving to both generating and consuming 
intelligence. Those considering generating cyber threat intelligence should 
review the SANS CTI Summit videos2 on the topic andor attend a CTI course.31The Evolution of Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI): 2019 SANS CTI Survey, February 2019,www.sans.orgreading\-roomwhitepapersanalystevolution\-cyber\-threat\-intelligence\-cti\-2019\-cti\-survey\-38790 \[Registration required.]2www.youtube.comwatch?v\=RwsAiz9dBEQ\&list\=PLfouvuAjspTrfjl\_CskRxIAsMHdWusK\-j3www.sans.orgcoursecyber\-threat\-intelligence2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey2This years survey response pool represented a wide\-ranging group of securityprofessionals from various organizations. Figure 1 provides a snapshot of thoserespondents.Top 4 Industries RepresentedOrganizational SizeGovernmentBanking and nanceCybersecurity 
service providerTechnologyEach gear represents 25 respondents.Operations and HeadquartersOps: 303
HQ:50Ops: 406
HQ:70Ops: 552
HQ:280Small
(Up to 1,000\)SmallMedium
(1,0015,000\)Medium
(5,00115,000\)MediumLarge
(15,00150,000\)Large
(More than 50,001\)Each building represents 25 respondents.Top 4 Roles RepresentedSecurity operations
Security analystIncident 
responderOps: 656
HQ:512Ops: 275
HQ:34Security manager 
or directorOps: 273
HQ:13Ops: 214
HQ:13Ops: 290
HQ:34OtherEach person represents 25 respondents.CTI Programs: The Right People and the Right ToolsCyber Threat Intelligence involves analyzing information about threats and producingguidance to determine what steps must be taken in response to those threats. Thisprocess, which by now seems intuitive in concept, is incredibly complex and relies on acombination of people, processes and tools to both generate, consume and act on theintelligence. All three things are critical to a successful CTI program. Without personnelto evaluate information and make analytic judgements, there would be no CTI. Likewise,without processes and tools, even the best analysts will find themselves severely limitedin the amount of data they can turn into actionable intelligence compared with thevolume of threats their organizations potentially face. While the 2020 CTI Survey resultsshow some promising improvements in these critical areas, they also highlight placeswhere the community would benefit from continued efforts.Figure 1\. Key Demographic 
Information2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey3PeoplePeople are often considered the core of a CTI program. Not only do they conduct theanalysis that will lead to finished intelligence, but they also decide what tools andprocesses to use to support their efforts. A single analyst can be successful withthe right tools and support from other security teams; however, respondents havehistorically reported the difficulty that these lone individuals face when trying to keepup with the sheer volume of tasks. In the past three years, we have seen an increasein the percentage of respondents choosing to have a dedicated team over a singleindividual responsible for the entireCTI program. According to the 2020CTI Survey results, almost half of allrespondents report that they have adedicated team, which is especiallyencouraging because it means thoseFigure 2\.Another way to address the needfor skilled analysts is to work withexternal partners to handle orDoes your organization have resources that focus on CTI?Yes, we have a formal dedicated teamYes, its shared responsibility with staff pulled 
from other security groupsYes, we have a single dedicated person49\.5%26\.2%8\.8%7\.1%5\.2%Unknown3\.2%0%20%40%60%single analysts now have help! SeeNo responsibilities are assigned, but we plan toNo responsibilities are assigned, with no plans toFigure 2\. Allocation of CTI Resourcessupport an organizations CTI functionality. In the past year, more organizations havechosen to partner with external resources, with 61% of respondents reporting that CTItasks are handled by a combination of in\-house and service provider teams, up from 
54% in 2019\.4 The number of teams relying solely on service providers has remained 
relatively consistent, with 8% in 2019 and 7% in 2020\.Some respondents provided additional insight into the collaboration supporting theirorganizations CTI programs, for example the handling of network defense in\-house,indicating that other CTI tasks such as data collection and providing threat assessmentsmight be handled by external partners. One respondent reported that while theirprimary role is a threat intelligence service provider who supported other organizations,they still have relationships with external partners of theirown. In some situations, an organization is limited in theamount of information it can share with external partners,such as with some government\-sector respondents, buteven in those cases, relationships with external partnerscan still be beneficial by providing insight into what otherWhere are CTI team members drawn from within the organization?
Select those that most apply.Security operations center (SOC)Incident response (IR) team54\.4%48\.0%organizations are seeing or trends that may becomeStandalone team dedicated to CTIsignificant down the road.Enterprise security teamNow that we see the highest reported number ofVulnerability management teamdedicated threat intelligence teams in respondentorganizations, it is helpful to understand how these teamsare structured. In the 2020 survey, respondents reporteda mix of security operations center (SOC) and incidentresponse (IR) personnel, as illustrated in Figure 3\.IT operations teamBusiness group7\.0%Other4\.0%39\.2%31\.4%24\.9%21\.5%0%20%40%60%Figure 3\. CTI Team Composition4The Evolution of Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI): 2019 SANS CTI Survey, February 2019,www.sans.orgreading\-roomwhitepapersanalystevolution\-cyber\-threat\-intelligence\-cti\-2019\-cti\-survey\-38790, p. 8\. \[Registration required.]2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey4These skills are all extremely useful to an organizations threat intelligence capabilities,as both incident triage and in\-depth IR of internal events are critical to understandingthe threats that an organization faces. In the past, we have seen similar numbers ofSOC and IR resources as part of CTI teams; however this years respondents reportedhaving a higher number of dedicated threat intelligence analysts as part of their teams.Respondents also indicated a high level of cross\-functional collaboration betweensecurity teams in their organizations, writing that their CTI team is part of a purpleteam or a fusion cell focusing on security. In addition, some of the responses make itclear that there is not, and will likely never be, a one\-size\-fits\-allapproach to CTI teams, adding their own categories of personnelincluding finance, digital crimes and security strategy teams.This years survey responses are very promising for thecontinued evolution of CTI as a critical security function.Not only were there more people responding to the surveyin general, but respondents are reporting more personnelWith more people and more teams workingcollaboratively, it is even more important tohave the right processes and tools in placeto support CTI efforts.dedicated to CTI functions while maintaining and even improving collaborationwith both internal and external teams. With more people and more teams workingcollaboratively, it is even more important to have the right processes and tools in placeto support CTI efforts.CTI ToolsThreat intelligence is the result of the aggregation and analysis of data related to theintent, opportunity and capabilities of adversaries. Getting the right data to the rightplaces for analysis is crucial to the process. While there will always be some level ofhuman analysis in the overall intelligence process, the goal is to allow CTI analysts tospend their time on the things requiring their expert judgment, and take the manualwork out of the processes that dont. This year, we saw a small decrease in the numberof respondents reporting manual efforts in some key areas, but there was still a fairamount of sad\-face emojis in the comments when asked about manual processes.For the survey, we have broken CTI tools into two functional groupings: tools forprocessing data and turning it into intelligence, and tools for managing intelligenceincluding generating alerts based on intelligence.Processing ToolsData must be processed before it can be analyzed and turned into intelligence.Processing includes repeatable tasks such as deduplication of data, data enrichmentand data standardization, along with other more intensive tasks requiring analysisof their own, such as reverse engineering of malware. Most organizations report thatprocessing is either a manual or semi\-automated process. Deduplication is the mostcommonly automated process, with only 27% of organizations reporting manualdeduplication of data. Reverse engineering of samples is the least automated process,with 48% reporting manual efforts for this task, up slightly from last year. This trend isevident with regard to management tools, where forensics platforms have the secondlowest level of automation and the highest level of disparate use, meaning that whenthey are used in a CTI function analysts must manually initiate the transfer of data ormanually input data from one system to another.2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey5Respondents did not report a high level of change in processing capabilitiesbetween 2019 and 2020\. The majority of processing tasks are done either manuallyor are semi\-automated. One area where we saw automation improvement in is theenrichment of data. Manual enrichment of information using internal data sourcesis down by 5% balanced by a slight increase in semi\-automated and fully automatedprocesses. Enrichment of information using external public data sources and usingsemi\-automated methods increased by 5% from 2019\. Interestingly, reporting of fullyautomated processing remained the same or decreased slightly with the exception ofenrichment of internal data, suggesting an interesting concept in an industry wherecomplete automation is often the end goal. Because data processing is such a criticalstep in the analytic process, it appears that analysts are reluctant to trust this stepentirely to automated processes, staying true to somewhat ironic phrase trust butverify. Streamlining the verification process might result in more semi\-automatedprocesses versus fully automated processes, but may be just what analysts need tosupport their work.Management ToolsIn the 2020 CTI Survey, respondents report that Security Information and EventManagement (SIEM) platforms, network traffic monitoring tools and intrusion monitoringplatforms are the most heavily used tools. Of this, SIEM platforms have the highestreported level of use (86\.9%) as well as the highest use of automation. Most othermanagement tools, including network traffic monitoring, intrusion analysis andforensics platforms are reported as having some automation, with the exception ofspreadsheets and emails, which are mostly processed manually. Despite the lack ofautomated or semi\-automated processes, spreadsheets and emails remain one of thetop management tools for CTI analysts. See Figure 4\.What type of management tools are you using to aggregate, analyze andor present CTI information?
Select all that apply, and indicate whether these are used disparately or work together under a unified GUI.Used DisparatelyUse Some AutomationIntegrated GUISIEM platformNetwork traffic analysis toolsIntrusion monitoring platformOpen source CTI management platform (CRITS, MISP)Spreadsheets andor emailCTI service providerCommercial CTI management platformForensics platformHomegrown systemSecurity analytics platform other than SIEMThird\-party visualization and reporting platform14\.0%33\.7%39\.2%21\.4%16\.4%29\.6%27\.2%24\.7%42\.3%37\.7%37\.1%29\.3%31\.5%28\.3%22\.0%25\.6%19\.1%27\.3%7\.6%16\.8%21\.2%35\.8%26\.4%10\.5%25\.6%22\.4%27\.9%29\.1%29\.1%27\.2%16\.8%18\.5%13\.2%Other10\.1%4\.4%2\.7%0%20%40%60%80%Figure 4\. CTI Management Tool Usage2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey6Over the years, respondents have consistently listed spreadsheets as a CTI tool for bothmanagement and processing. In addition to allowing data to be stored and shared,many spreadsheet applications have built\-in functionality that supports processingsuch as sorting, deduplication and convertingthe data into various visual formats. Manydedicated CTI tool developers understandthat spreadsheets are familiar and functionalfor analysts and have built them into theirown processes. Most data in CTI tools canbe exported and imported into .csv format,and some SIEM tools allow users to buildautomated tasks around data in spreadsheets.These additions will help overcome someof the shortcomings of working withspreadsheets, such as getting consistentdata to different users within the same team,which is even more important now that thereare more dedicated CTI teams as opposed tostandalone analysts.TAKEAWAYSMore organizations are investing in dedicated CTI teams versus individualanalysts or fully outsourced functionalities. These teams will enable 
organizations to better understand and address the threats they face. Many 
organizations just beginning to build out their teams still need to focus not 
only on training of CTI skills, but also on collaboration and teamwork skills to 
work with internal and external partners, which are critical for a CTI team.We see less full automation and more semi\-automation in CTI processingtools. While we see more automation in the management of CTI, especially 
when it comes to the use of tools such as SIEMs and network management 
tools, respondents report less full automation and more semi\-automation 
in CTI processing tools. While manual processes are often a hindrance to 
analysis, semi\-automation may be the most beneficial for analysts, taking 
away some of the most tedious aspects of a task, but still providing analysts 
with a level of control and transparency that gives them confidence in their 
processes.CTI Processes: The Intelligence CycleThe CTI community and many organizations both produce and consume intelligence.Over the years, more and more organizations report that they are producing andconsuming data, with a 10% increase from 2019 in those that both produce and consumeraw threat data and a nearly 7% increase in those who both produce and consumealerts with contextual data as well as published threat reports. Of the three categoriesof CTI, we see only published threat intelligence withmore sole consumers, with 55% consuming this typeof intelligence without producing it (see Figure 5\).Regardless of whether an organization producesandor consumes intelligence, a process is required60%to move from identification of what questions mustbe answered using threat intelligence to actionsbenefitting an organizations defenses. For many40%organizations, that process is a version of the classicintelligence cycle.The intelligence cycle is a process for generatingaccurate, useable intelligence. It begins witha planning phase, in which the intelligencequestions that must be answered (also knownas requirements) are generated. When the20%0%Indicate whether your organization produces or consumes CTI 
in terms of raw data, contextual threat alerts andor published 
threat intelligence reports. Produce Consume Both49\.7%40\.0%48\.1%43\.0%54\.5%39\.3%5\.0%6\.6%4\.7%Raw threat dataContextual threat 
alertsPublished threat 
intelligenceFigure 5\. CTI Production and Consumption by Type2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey7requirements are known, the next phase is collection,gathering data to help answer the questions and meetthe requirements. The next phase is processing, wherethe data is put into a usable format for analysis. Thisleads into the fourth phase, analysis, in which the datais synthesized to identify the answers to the intelligencerequirements. The last phase is dissemination, wherethe findings are captured in the right format to reachthe intended audience outlined in the planning phase.It is important to note that while the intelligencecycle is a cyclical process, it is sometimes necessaryto go backward in the process; for example if, duringthe analysis phase it is determined that additionalinformation is needed or information must beprocessed in a different format, it is important to goback to the appropriate earlier step so that the endresult is an informed, accurate analytic finding. SeeFigure 6\.This years survey shows that more organizations areDisseminationPlanning 
RequirementsAnalysisCollectionProcessingfollowing the steps of the intelligence cycle either intentionally or intuitively. In the 2020survey, we covered three critical processes from the intelligence cycle: requirements,collection and dissemination.Figure 6\. The Intelligence CycleRequirementsThe 2019 CTI Surveywas the first yearthat we looked intothe development anduse of requirementsTable 1\. Defining CTI Requirements (Year over Year)Yes, we have documented intelligence requirements.No, our requirements are ad hoc.No, but we plan to define them.No, we have no plans to formalize requirements.202043\.8%29\.7%20\.4%6\.1%201930\.3%37\.0%26\.0%6\.7%Trend13\.5%\-7\.3%\-5\.6%\-0\.6%to drive threat intelligence programs, an area that has seen incredible growth in thepast year. Requirements seek to identify what specific questions or concerns must beaddressed by a threat intelligence program. The numberof organizations reporting a formal process for gatheringrequirements increased 13% from last year to almost 44%(see Table 1\).Also positive news: Those contributing to CTI requirementsSecurity operationsThe CTI teampersonnelIf you have CTI requirements, who contributes to them?
Select all that apply.74\.9%71\.6%65\.3%increased across the board, with respondents reportingIncident response teammore input from teams including security operations,IR and business units. In fact, security operations hadmore input than the CTI teams this year, indicating thatoperations are beginning to drive intelligence for the firsttime reported. See Figure 7\.Vulnerability managementExecutives
(C\-suite, board of directors)42\.7%31\.6%Business unitsCustomers20\.0%18\.8%Other2\.7%2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey0%20%40%60%80%Figure 7\. CTI Requirements Contributors8Respondents report that requirements are primarily updated in an ad hoc mannerrather than on a scheduled (yearly, monthly or weekly) basis. But the good news is thatonly 5% of respondents say they dont update requirements atall (see Figure 8\). While there are some consistent themes inrequirements across the board, many are unique to a specificorganization or are based on past incidents or upcomingsignificant events for the organization.Examples of requirements from respondents include:The activity of a specific adversary \[with whom] we hadAd hocUnknownYearlyWeeklyHow often does your organization review and update
its CTI requirements?Select the best answer.28\.4%26\.7%17\.0%11\.6%11\.4%security incidents in the past, CTI team is tasked to monitorMonthlyfor new reported activity as well as profile the observedNever4\.9%TTPs of this adversary0%10%20%30%Consistently analyze and prioritize counter Business emailcompromise activity to protect our agent population from targeted attacksFigure 8\. Reviewing and Updating 
CTI RequirementsBrand surveillance, supply chain and partner assessmentsWhile there was a huge jump in organizations reporting development of requirements,over half of respondents still donot have a process for identifyingrequirements, which will helporganizations be successfulwhether they produce orconsume intelligence. Not havingrequirements or not havinga process for evaluating andprioritizing new requirements canbecome a serious roadblock formany teams.CollectionAfter identifying requirements, thenext step is to identify how to getaccess to the information that willhelp answer the requirements.For respondents who consumeintelligence, this means evaluatingsources of intelligence that will beeasy to operationalize. Nearly 70%of respondents gather some of theirinformation from a commercialthreat feed, from both CTI\-specificand general security vendors, withover 45% consuming non\-feedinformation from a CTI serviceprovider (see Figure 9\). When itWhat type of information do you consider to be part of your intelligence gathering?
Select all that apply.Open source or public CTI feeds
(DNS, MalwareDomainList.com)Threat feeds from CTI\-specific vendorsThreat feeds from general security vendorsCommunity or industry groups such as information 
sharing and analysis centers (ISACs) and Computer 
Emergency Readiness Teams (CERTs)
Security data gathered from our IDS, firewall, 
endpoint and other security systemsIncident response and live forensicsExternal sources such as media reports and newsSIEM platformVulnerability dataNetwork traffic analysis (packet and flow data)Forensics (postmortem)CTI service providerApplication logsOther formal and informal groups with a shared 
interestClosed or dark web sourcesSecurity analytics platform other than SIEMUser access and account informationHoney pot dataUser behavior data74\.3%68\.9%68\.5%68\.2%63\.4%63\.1%63\.1%62\.0%60\.6%57\.0%56\.4%45\.9%44\.4%43\.3%42\.1%36\.9%31\.9%29\.9%29\.6%Shared spreadsheets andor email21\.0%2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) SurveyOther1\.5%020%40%60%80%Figure 9\. Intelligence Types9comes to consuming intelligence, timeliness and relevance are once again at the top ofthe list of important factors, but more and more respondents are considering how thatinformation will be consumed as well as the content. This year, several respondentsidentified standardization with the Mitres ATT\&CK Matrix framework as a priority forinformation they consume.Producing intelligence involves the addition of other sources of data, most of whichhavent yet been processed or analyzed. These data sources include network trafficlogs, vulnerability data, user behavior data and security data gathered from IDS, SIEMsand other internal security systems. A hybrid form of data also exists, for exampleinformation about a previous incident that has already been processed and analyzed inan IR context and will now be used to answer CTI requirements.Most respondents collectdata from a variety ofsources. This year we sawa significant increasein several types ofintelligence collectionfrom last year, includingthreat feeds from CTI\-Table 2\. Sources for Gathering IntelligenceOpen source or public CTI feeds (DNS, MalwareDomainList.com)Threat feeds from CTI\-specific vendorsThreat feeds from general security vendors202074\.3%68\.9%68\.5%Community or industry groups such as information sharing and analysis
centers (ISACs) and Computer Emergency Readiness Teams (CERTs)68\.2%63\.4%Security data gathered from our IDS, firewall, endpoint and
other security systems63\.4%62\.2%1\.2%2019Trend66\.2%59\.8%63\.8%8\.1%9\.1%4\.7%4\.7%63\.1%63\.1%62\.0%60\.6%57\.0%56\.4%45\.9%44\.4%43\.3%42\.1%36\.9%31\.9%29\.9%29\.6%21\.0%1\.5%63\.4%55\.3%59\.2%58\.6%53\.2%48\.3%42\.6%43\.2%39\.6%39\.9%36\.9%34\.1%29\.3%30\.5%25\.1%1\.8%\-0\.3%7\.8%2\.8%2\.0%3\.8%8\.0%3\.3%1\.2%3\.8%2\.2%0\.1%\-2\.3%0\.5%\-1\.0%\-4\.1%\-0\.3%specific vendors, open\-External sources such as media reports and newssource threat feedsand forensics data (seeTable 2\). This increase ininformation gatheringcorresponds to theincrease in the numberof respondents who bothconsume and produceintelligence.One interesting trendin the informationfrom respondents isan increased interestIncident response and live forensicsSIEM platformVulnerability dataNetwork traffic analysis (packet and flow data)Forensics (postmortem)CTI service providerApplication logsOther formal and informal groups with a shared interestClosed or dark web sourcesSecurity analytics platform other than SIEMUser access and account informationHoney pot dataUser behavior dataShared spreadsheets andor emailOtherin open source threat intelligence in regard to both data and tools. There was an 8%increase in respondents reporting the use of open source threat feeds as a collectionsource and a 14% increase in the use of open source threat intelligence managementtools such as Collaborative Research Into Threats (CRITs) and Malware InformationSharing Platform (MISP). One respondent wrote that their organization is using MISPmore heavily now that there is an increased emphasis on attacker TTPs rather thanjust IoC aggregation. Although we did not ask specifically about Mitres ATT\&CK Matrixframework in the 2020 survey, several respondents wrote in that their organizations havehad success, particularly in adding contextual information to alerts and in prioritizingresponses, by leveraging it.2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey10Information gathering goes hand in hand with requirements in that requirementsdictate what information the organization needs to collect. Although there are farfewer examples this year of organizations gathering information they dont need, somerespondents still report their organizations spend money on data that they do not needor are unable to utilize. Just as with requirements, information should also periodicallybe evaluated to ensure that it is effective and usable. A data source that may have beencritical in the past might no longer be needed, and new data sources might need to beidentified as the organization and the threat landscape change.DisseminationIn order for intelligence to be effective,it must get to the right audience in away they are able to use it. The processof getting intelligence to its intendedaudience is called dissemination. CTI isprimarily disseminated in the form ofreports or briefings that summarize aparticular threat or is disseminated totools used to generate alerts or informother security teams in an automatedHow is CTI information utilized or disseminated by your organization?
Select all that apply.Email or documents such as spreadsheets
or PowerPointBriefingsVendor\-created threat intelligence platformOpen source threat intelligence platformHomegrown systemOther2\.7%66\.3%53\.0%40\.2%37\.0%35\.5%0%20%40%60%Figure 10\. Methods of Disseminating 
CTI Informationfashion. The majority of respondents use methods meant to disseminate intelligenceto people, such as email, spreadsheets or PowerPoint presentations. For many, thisis done on a regular basis such as weekly threat reports, daily email\-based briefs toother security teams or newsletters for general employee awareness. Briefings arealso high on the list of ways to disseminate CTI, with respondents reporting regularlyscheduled briefings as well as briefings for urgent issues, such as identifying when theirorganization has been targeted. See Figure 10\.When it comes to intelligence meant to be understood by others in the organization,a high degree of personalization based on the audiences preferences is needed. Asone respondent put it, Intelligence needs to bedissected before reaching different business unitsTAKEAWAYSso it can be actionable. Finance will need a slightlydifferent version of a brief that focuses on theirspecific business concerns than will the teamresponsible for brand protection, for example.Intelligence is also disseminated to tools usedfor alerting. Most organizations rely on a threatintelligence platform for this purpose. Respondentsreport a similar number of organizations usingopen source, vendor\-created or homegrown threatintelligence platforms to disseminate intelligenceto other security systems. While the percentageof respondents using vendor platforms has beenconsistent in the past two years, the use of opensource and homegrown systems has increased.The development of CTI requirements is the first phase of theintelligence cycle and will help an organization ensure that the 
work being done meets the needs of their security program. More 
organizations are developing requirements, but the organizations that 
have not yet formalized this process can start by identifying the teams 
who leverage CTI and asking what questions they have or what problems 
they are consistently running into that CTI could help address.Although CTI data can come from a variety of sources, leveraging 
a framework such as Mitres ATT\&CK Matrix framework during 
the processing phase can help analysts identify trends and make 
connections between the different sources.Even the best\-analyzed CTI products become ineffective if they dont 
reach the right audience in a timely manner. With more organizations 
producing their own intelligence, it is critical to make sure the 
audienceand the way they best consume intelligenceis taken into 
consideration before dissemination.2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey11Value and Inhibitors of CTIRespondents noted they are using CTI across the spectrum of detection, response,prevention and mitigation.CTI Uses and Use CasesAt a high level, the leading use was for threat detectionDo you utilize CTI for the following?(89%), followed by threat prevention (77%), threat response(72%) and threat mitigation (59%). Organizations focusing tooheavily on threat prevention often struggle with detectionand response, which would otherwise be core to their abilityto maintain great prevention over time. Its clear from thisThreat detectionThreat preventionThreat responseThreat mitigationyears survey data that many organizations, at least whereOther1\.9%88\.5%76\.8%71\.7%59\.4%CTI is involved, have seen detection as the primary value0%20%40%60%80%100%driver. See Figure 11\.The detection and response use cases deemed most valuable in weighted analysisorder were IoCs, threat behaviors and adversary TTPs, digital footprint or attacksurface identification, and strategic analysis of the adversary, respectively. Figure 12illustrates the raw rankings of each in terms value to organizations. While IoCs stillseem to reign as a major value add to programs, there has been a growing focus onTTPs in organizations. As organizations have the proper tooling to leverage TTPs moreeffectively, they will likely edge out IoCs as a primary detection mechanism.Figure 11\. CTI Detection, Response, 
Prevention and MitigationCombining TTPs and IoCs can form a powerfuldetection and response strategy. Instead ofrunning IoCs over every piece of data and thusincreasing false positives, consider leveragingTTPs as a primary detection strategy andthen running the associated IoCs against thesubset of detections based off of TTPs. Asan example, running indicators associatedwith VPNs against all network traffic wouldyield a higher level of false positives thanrunning those same indicators against onlynetwork traffic that alerted against TTP\-baseddetections associated with malicious use ofVPNs. This allows analysts to have a moreFor threat detection and response use cases, please rank the following in order
of their value to you, with 1 being most valuable and 4 being least valuable.50%40%30%20%10%0% 1 2 3 446\.6%42\.4%35\.1%29\.1%33\.2%26\.6%28\.2%20\.5%15\.4%13\.9%18\.4%14\.0%21\.7%21\.4%14\.0%9\.1%Strategic analysis 
of the adversaryDigital footprint 
or attack surface 
identificationThreat behaviors 
and adversary 
tactics, tradecraft 
and procedureIndicators of 
compromise
(IoCs)Figure 12\. Threat Detection 
and Response Valuetransposable and durable detection strategy with TTPs, but still gain the value andcontext associated with IoCs. Additionally, IoCs remain a highly effective mechanismfor scoping environments once a threat is detected. Here, teams will excel at responsewhen they prioritize their own IoCs observed in the detection stage.2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey12Measuring Effectiveness and the Value of CTIOne obviously difficult area for organizations every year is measuring the effectivenessof cyber threat intelligence. The message is clear: 82% of respondents organizationsfind value in it, with 17% not being sure of how to answer and fewer than 1% ofrespondents noting that CTI did not improve their security and response efforts.But measuring exactly what value it is bringing in a structured and defined way isunderstandably difficult. Only 4% of respondents had processes inplace to measure effectiveness (see Figure 13\). There is no one\-size\-fits\-all strategy to measuring intelligence, but it must start withthe intelligence requirements phase. Organizations with clearlydefined intelligence requirements can use those requirements toset obtainable goals based on the intent behind the requirement.When looking at security and response use cases, thesemeasurements can be mapped to overall defender\-based metricsinstead of simply tracking adversary metrics.Adversary metrics are those metrics that the adversary controls.As an example, if you were to track the number of intrusions yousee per year, that metric would be influenced by two things: howoften an adversary targets your network and how often you detectthe intrusion. Of those two, the defender can only control howDo you measure the effectiveness of CTI?4\.2%37\.8%58\.0%YesNoUnknownFigure 13\. Measuring CTIs 
Effectivenessoften they detect the intrusion. The adversary alone determines how often and howaggressively they target any given organization. Reporting only on adversary metricscan tell a misleading story that is difficult for CTI teams to understand. Instead,consider what story you can tell with defender\-based metrics. For example, againstthe known threats that you track and your coverage against the TTPs theyve shown.Historically, are you increasing the analytical breadth (coverage) and analytical depth(multiple detections for a single TTP) of your detections against the threats? Howmany IR playbooks has the CTI team contributed to based on their insights? Howlong did it previously take to scope your organization and with what level of visibilityversus what you can to today based on investments in people, process and technologyacross the organization? These are all defender\-based metrics, because you candirectly influence them and use them to tell your story more than the adversarys.Measurements are not only done in metrics, but the right metrics can tell a powerfulstory or identify issues to correct.Inhibitors Holding Programs BackThere are many reasons CTI teams can struggle, including those beyond their controlsuch as management support or company resources. Sometimes it can also just bedifficult to get started. When asked about the biggest inhibitors, it was clear the focuswas on people and processes. The leading issue at 57% was the lack of trained staff andskills associated with fully utilizing CTI. The next leading issue at 52% was the time toimplement proper intelligence processes across the team. Interestingly, the lowest issue,2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey13selected by 23%, was confidence in using the information to make decisions (see Figure14\). CTI practitioners and the teams using threat intelligence seem to clearly understandhow to use it to support them and understand its value but are stretched thin on findingthe appropriate talent. It was goodto see that only a minority sufferedfrom lack of management buy\-in aswell, which appears to note that thevalue propositions of CTI are wellunderstood in most organizations ata variety of levels.Participants were asked about theirlevel of satisfaction with variousaspects of CTI. The highest level ofsatisfaction for respondents wastheir ability to have visibility intothreats (75%), search and report onthose threats (73%) and have relevantthreat data and information (72%).What inhibitors are holding your organization back from implementing CTI effectively?
Select all that apply.Lack of trained staff or lack of skills 
needed to fully utilize CTI
Lack of time to implement new 
processesLack of fundingInteroperability issuesLack of 
automationLack of management buy\-inLack of technical capability to integrate 
CTI tools into our environment
Lack of automation from technical 
identification to reporting to C\-suite
Lack of confidence in using the 
information to make decisions56\.9%51\.9%48\.6%47\.8%30\.6%30\.0%25\.5%23\.0%Other3\.9%0%10%20%30%40%50%60%Figure 14\. CTI InhibitorsAutomation and integration of CTI information through respondents tooling still scoredwell (61%), but the lowest rated area was machine learning with 36% satisfaction and58% outright dissatisfaction in the effectiveness or value of it. Tools can add a lot ofvalue for intelligence analysis, but the process is heavily dependent on analysts.Sharing Is CaringRandomly sharing IoCs by plugging in threat feeds can lead tomore harm than good. The CTI community has become moreregimented about how it uses intelligence, and while IoCs are stillof great value, most organizations have become more thoughtfulin how they source this data. This much is clear: Sharing andnetworking are still core components of success for the community.Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACs) are not availableto all respondents, although there was great global distribution inthe home country of participants in the survey. And yet 45% stillanswered that they are members of an ISAC (see Figure 15\). Thebiggest inhibitors based on comments was the cost of some of theISACs membership dues.Do you interact with ISACs, and is your organization
a member of one?29\.0%44\.9%26\.2%YesNoUnknownFigure 15\. ISAC Membership 
Rates2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey14What significant value do you gain from your ISAC membership?
Select all that apply.Respondents belonging to an ISACnoted value across a couple of keyareas: 73% noted they did get sometimely and relevant threat informationfrom ISACs. Based on the data andPoints of contact at member organizationscomments, it was clear that a majorAdvocacy in the community for securityTimely and relevant threat informationvalue in the ISACs was gaining points ofcontact at member organizations (68%),advocacy in the community (44%) andthe membership meetups (43%). SeeFigure 16\.Member meetups and eventsConferences and trainingOther2\.4%73\.4%67\.6%43\.7%42\.7%36\.2%0%20%40%60%80%As organizations mature, it is a common complaint that ISACs for threat informationbecome less valuable. However, this simply means the organizations are outgrowing theperceived effectiveness, which is an overall good thing. In those cases, points of contactat other organizations become invaluable for going beyond the immediate sharing ofavailable information and analysis on emerging threats and trends.Whereas ISACs received high marks, there was a bit less consensus on the role andvalue of government in CTI. See Figure 17\.Figure 16\. Value of ISAC MembershipWritten comments called outsome specific organizationspositively, such as theUKs NCSC. Overall though,only 47% of organizationsthought government providedsomething significant or uniquein value over what they weregetting elsewhere. In manycases, the role of governmentis less about providing insightsthat differ from those emergingfrom the private sector (whichlargely has the expertise toDo you utilize government CTI?Do you feel your government CTI sources 
and information provide significant and 
unique value beyond what you are getting 
from your own efforts or private sector CTI?17\.4%29\.3%53\.4%YesNoUnknown50%40%30%20%10%0%46\.7%28\.2%25\.1%YesNoNo opinionFigure 17\. Government CTI Usagegenerate those insights), but instead around the amplification of which threats thegovernment thinks matter the most. Similar to the value propositions of the ISACs formore mature organizations, as the industry matures, the government should likely seekto take a role of empowering ISACs and adding additional amplification and contextaround known public threats in a wider forum.2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey15Conclusion: Keep Moving ForwardA lot of progress has been made in the past few years around requirements.Next steps in this area include identifying when and why to update intelligencerequirementseven ad hoc adjustments can be planned for by identifyingthe circumstances under which they would need to be changed. It is alsoTakeawayclear that there are numerous positive trends in the community, such as moreorganizations producing intelligence instead of just consuming it. But there arealso many challenges, such as getting the appropriate staffing and training toconduct cyber threat intelligence. Tools and data sources are always going to bevital to the process, but the world of intelligence analysis is inherently analyst\-driven and a focus is rightfully placed there.Sharing not only IoCs and adversary TTPs, but also processes and analyticprocesses, will help the community continue to mature. Some processes toshare include strategies for measuring the effectiveness of a CTI program. Thesemetrics should be based on requirements and should be defender\-basedmetricsfor example, how long did it previously take to scope your organizationand with what level of visibility vs. what you can to today based on investmentsin people, process and technology across the organization? While the specificmetrics will likely differ from organization to organization, the processes can bedeveloped leveraging shared best practices and ideally can be built into toolsin the future, both commercial and open\-source, making the process timely,effective and repeatable.In the coming year, get more 
involved in the community and 
find the best practices from 
other organizations, especially 
around intelligence requirements 
and analyst development. With 
many changes in the world in 
the coming year, from political 
elections and global trade 
tensions, to natural disasters 
with unknown consequences, CTI 
analysts will likely be asked to 
focus on new and unanticipated 
threats. Being part of a community 
of intelligence analysts sharing 
threat data, best practices and 
lessons learned will help everyone 
adapt to rapidly changing 
situations and provide intelligence 
to protect critical networks.2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey16About the AuthorRobert M. Lee, a SANS certified instructor and author of ICS515: ICS Active Defenseand Incident Response and FOR578: Cyber Threat Intelligence courses, is the founderand CEO of Dragos, a critical infrastructure cyber security company, where he focuseson control system traffic analysis, incident response and threat intelligence research.He has performed defense, intelligence and attack missions in various governmentorganizations, including the establishment of a first\-of\-its\-kind ICSSCADA cyber threatintelligence and intrusion analysis mission. Author of SCADA and Me and a nonresidentNational Cyber Security Fellow at New America, focusing on critical infrastructure cybersecurity policy issues, Robert was named EnergySecs 2015 Energy Sector SecurityProfessional of the Year.SponsorSANS would like to thank this surveys sponsor:2020 SANS Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) Survey17