```markdown
# 2023 State of the Internet Report - Censys.io

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Glossary](#glossary)
- [Summary of Findings](#summary-of-findings)
- [What Is the Internet?](#what-is-the-internet)
- [Web Entities on The Internet](#web-entities-on-the-internet)
- [HTTP At-a-Glance](#http-at-a-glance)
- [Who’s Down With HTTP?](#whos-down-with-http)
  - [Geographic View](#geographic-view)
  - [HTTP in the Cloud](#http-in-the-cloud)
- [What Comprises HTTP Services on the Internet?](#what-comprises-http-services-on-the-internet)
  - [What’s Out There Beyond Web Servers?](#whats-out-there-beyond-web-servers)
- [X.509 Certificates and the Quest for a More Secure Internet](#x509-certificates-and-the-quest-for-a-more-secure-internet)
- [Encryption of Web Entities on the Internet](#encryption-of-web-entities-on-the-internet)
  - [Encrypted Services](#encrypted-services)
  - [Unencrypted Services](#unencrypted-services)
- [The State of Web Entity Security](#the-state-of-web-entity-security)
  - [Data Leaks on the Web](#data-leaks-on-the-web)
  - [Who Monitors the Monitors and Documents the Documenters?](#who-monitors-the-monitors-and-documents-the-documenters)
    - [Prometheus](#prometheus)
    - [Web APIs & SwaggerUI](#web-apis--swaggerui)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)
- [Appendix](#appendix)

# Introduction
Part One

The internet is undoubtedly one of the most significant technologies ever invented, having revolutionized the way we communicate, do business, and access information. Since its inception it has evolved to support a vast array of technologies including web servers, content delivery networks, cloud computing, and the internet of things. However the continuous adoption of new technologies and services poses challenges in the realm of security practices. As new vulnerabilities and methods of exploitation emerge, the internet’s attack surface continues to evolve, making it crucial for individuals, businesses, and governments to keep pace with the dynamic landscape of internet risks.

Censys maintains a comprehensive map of the internet that offers broad visibility into online entities. In last year’s report, we leveraged this data to broadly examine some of the most significant services on the internet, internet-wide risks and vulnerabilities, and the footprint of organizations on the internet. This year, we delve deeper into web entities, or content served over HTTP – think websites, web-based control panels, load balancers, and even APIs. Web entities have become a ubiquitous part of our daily lives, enabling us to shop, read the news, and stay in touch with loved ones. 

Our goal is to share our findings and analysis with the community to provide a deeper understanding of the complexities of the internet. We hope that readers can use these findings to enhance their understanding of the services that comprise the web and make more informed decisions about how to safeguard their digital assets.

In particular, we want to better understand the state of security on the modern internet.

First, the good news:
- We know from previous research that over 90% of web traffic is encrypted. Of all hosts we observe using TLS and encrypting traffic, nearly 95% of them support the latest two versions of TLS (1.2 and 1.3), with steady growth over the last year in hosts using TLS 1.3. It’s encouraging to see strong adoption of these newer versions of TLS and shifts away from older, less secure versions.
- Let’s Encrypt, an organization that provides free TLS certificates, has been a main driver in widespread TLS adoption since they began issuing certificates in 2015. Now responsible for 49% of browser-trusted certificates, Let’s Encrypt offers TLS encryption to anyone in a free and convenient manner, a departure from the expensive and time-consuming process of obtaining a TLS certificate in the past.

And the not-so-good news:
- Data exposures via misconfiguration remain a serious problem. We found over 8,000 servers on the internet hosting potentially sensitive information, including possible credentials, database backups, and configuration files. These were trivial for us to identify, as they would be for even inexperienced threat actors. 
- What’s more? Unauthenticated monitoring tools (Prometheus) and API documentation (SwaggerUI) provide another avenue for threat actors to conduct reconnaissance, giving detailed insight into a target’s network. We found over 40,000 instances of each of these in our data.
- While it isn’t all bad news, our research suggests that we still haven’t reached an ideal state of security on the internet. 

We hope you’ll enjoy this exploration into web entities and the state of internet security.
       The Censys Research Team

# Glossary
Before we get into the data, we wanted to provide definitions of some common terms we will use throughout this report.
- **Autonomous System (AS)**: An AS is a group of hosts with the same routing policy, managed by one network operator or organization. ASes help route traffic across the internet. Each AS receives its own Autonomous System Number (ASN) from a regional internet registry (RIR) such as ARIN, RIPE, or APNIC. These ASNs are used to identify an AS and its associated network prefixes.
- **Certificate Authority (CA)**: A trusted entity responsible for verifying the identity of an entity requesting a certificate, signing and issuing the certificate, and ultimately managing the lifecycle of the certificate. 
- **Content Delivery Network (CDN)**: A Content Delivery Network (CDN) is a geographically distributed network of servers that work together to provide faster and more reliable delivery of web content, including text, graphics, scripts, and videos. By storing cached copies of content closer to end-users, CDNs can help reduce latency and bandwidth consumption, leading to faster load times and improved performance for websites and web applications.
- **Host**: 
  - Unnamed Host: A distinct IPv4 address without a corresponding hostname
  - Named / Virtual Host: A distinct IPv4 address or collection of IP addresses that represent a single hostname
- **HTTP**: Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a protocol that facilitates the exchange of data between web servers/websites and web clients.
- **HTTP Status Code**: A numeric code that indicates the status of a requested resource on a web server. 
- **Service**: An application running on a host that can communicate with a client over a network. These services are typically identified by the communication protocol used at the OSI-model L7 (application) level. However, Censys also identifies and isolates specific services that operate on top of HTTP, such as Elasticsearch, CWMP, and others.
- **TLS / SSL / Encryption**
  - Unencrypted service: A plain HTTP service without TLS encryption or HTTPS redirection, leaving data transmission over the internet vulnerable to interception, tampering, and unauthorized access. 
  - Encrypted service: An HTTPS service utilizing TLS encryption, which safeguards data transmission over the internet by encrypting it and leveraging digital certificates for authentication
- **Web Entity**: A service running HTTP on the internet that is accessed by IP or by a hostname.
- **X.509 / SSL / TLS Certificate**: Known by several names, certificates are digital artifacts that verify an entity’s identity and enable web traffic encryption.

# Summary of Findings
- While misconfigurations don’t often make headlines, they remain a major problem. We identified over 8,000 hosts on the internet hosting various database information, backup files, passwords, Excel worksheets, environment variables, and even some SSL and SSH private keys. These were simple to find and could make a threat actor’s job very easy.
- We observed over 40,000 Prometheus servers exposed to the internet, monitoring over 219,000 endpoints. This tooling could provide would-be threat actors with detailed reconnaissance and network mapping abilities.
- When examining internet exposure of the monitoring tool Prometheus, we discovered that over 48% of the active metrics on the hosts and services Prometheus monitors exist exclusively in private IP space and internal DNS zones, which would typically not be visible to global internet users. This visibility would make it trivial for threat actors to conduct reconnaissance on these organizations, learning details about their inner workings and network architecture.
- The popularity of web servers with a history of vulnerabilities or those that have reached end-of-life on unnamed hosts (Hikvision, Boa) may indicate security practices that have fallen behind on the necessary best practices for the modern internet.
- Of all encrypted HTTP services, nearly 95% support the most secure TLS versions available: 1.2 and 1.3, and the adoption of TLS 1.3 has been in a consistent state of growth over the past year.

# What is the Internet?
Part Two

While the terms “internet” and “web” are often used interchangeably, they are in fact distinct concepts. The internet refers to a network-of-networks that connects devices worldwide through physical cables and wireless connections. Conversely, the web is an enormous collection of data accessible via the internet, running on HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol), a simple yet increasingly sophisticated protocol that runs over TCP.

This report defines “web entities” as services running HTTP on the internet that are accessed by IP or by a name. While most users access the web through browsers that request content from domain names, this is only one part of the whole picture.

Censys has two perspectives on the internet: the _unnamed_ and the _named_. The unnamed internet view consists of hosts and services that respond equally to requests via IP addresses or hostnames, such as SSH servers. Conversely, the “named internet” is the hosts and services that Censys can view independently of the physical IP and are instead referenced by a name. 

Fortunately, two of the most common protocols found on the internet support such a mechanism, albeit for slightly different reasons:
- The HTTP protocol (starting in version 1.1) specifies that a “Host” header must be included with each client request, informing the server of the specific hostname along with the resource that is being requested. Without this header, every domain name would need a dedicated IP address. 
- TLS SNI (Server Name Indication) is an extension of the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol that allows a client to “indicate” the hostname of the server it is trying to connect to before establishing a secure connection. Without SNI, the server could not determine the correct hostname and associated underlying certificate and would return whatever default certificate the server had configured – without SNI, an SSL certificate would need a dedicated IP address to function securely, much like it did until 2003.

In summary, SNI allows the web server to respond with a hostname-specific certificate, while the HTTP Host header maps the request to a different backend entity, such as a file or directory, a process commonly referred to as “Virtual Hosting.”

Given that most web servers will respond differently based on the client’s request, if Censys only scanned the world using the bare IP address of hosts, we would have a minimal picture of what the internet genuinely looks like, and our data would be wholly incomplete. This is why we introduced name-based network scanning and a more modern approach to viewing web-based assets, which we call “web entities.”

The following sections will attempt to paint a complete picture of HTTP on the modern web. 

# Web Entities on The Internet
Part Three

# HTTP At-a-Glance
HTTP, or Hypertext Transfer Protocol, encapsulates many different types of services running on the internet. Services that run over HTTP include web servers, load balancers, web-based APIs, and more. In our previous report, we discussed how HTTP is everywhere. It represents 88% of the services we see on the internet. 

On a single daily snapshot of the internet from Censys scan data in early 2023, we observed over 740 million hosts running 1.3 billion HTTP services of some variety. This comprises 165 million unnamed hosts only accessible by bare IPv4 address and over 570 million named or virtual hosts.

Of these services, we observed:
- Nearly 18% running on servers hosted in a major cloud provider (Amazon, Oracle, GCP, or Azure)
- Examining the internet as a whole (beyond the major cloud providers), we observe over 85% of HTTP services running on named hosts, while 14% were running on unnamed hosts
- Web server technologies running on over half of all HTTP services on both named and unnamed hosts, with Apache HTTPD and Nginx being the most popular
- Instances of discontinued and/or scrutinized web server products commonly used on unnamed hosts suggests that non-optimal security practices may be in place on these devices.

# Who’s Down with HTTP?
## Geographic View

Internet hosts are dispersed globally, with a higher concentration in regions with denser populations and advanced digital infrastructures, particularly those housing large data centers. Consequently, the United States, China, and various European countries have some of the most substantial numbers of internet hosts that surpass those of other regions worldwide.

The hosts on the internet running HTTP services mirror general host distribution patterns we observe globally.

![Figure 1: Snapshot of all hosts running an HTTP service from February 28, 2023 (generated via kepler.gl)]

## HTTP in the Cloud
Cloud infrastructure is increasingly being adopted in today’s digital landscape, powering the backbone of modern businesses and organizations worldwide.  So just how much of the web is on the cloud? While it is difficult to determine the exact percentage of the web that is on the cloud, we can gain a general idea by examining the web infrastructure of the dominant players in the cloud provider industry: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP), Microsoft Azure, and Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI). 

Censys observed over 130 million hosts globally (~18% of all hosts running HTTP on the internet) with nearly 230 million HTTP services in one of these four major cloud providers.

![Figure 2: Breakdown of HTTP services across major cloud providers]

Amazon remains the most popular cloud provider we observe among HTTP services, accounting for 13% of all HTTP services. Zooming out, services running in AWS make up 11% of all the services Censys observes. These include popular AWS services such as EC2 and the web apps and web properties behind its CloudFront CDN.

Amazon also sees the most significant number of HTTP services running on named hosts, with over 80% of all its HTTP services being named. 

# What Comprises HTTP Services on the Internet?
How many of the HTTP services on the web are actual websites? The answer is more complex than it may initially seem. A “website” – in the context that many internet users are familiar with – is a collection of publicly accessible documents that share a common name. Websites are typically published on web servers that speak HTTP to serve content to web clients.

Defining what constitutes a “website” requires some nuance, as not everything deployed on web servers fits this definition. For instance, we can find many web servers that appear to have no function - they may return zero-byte documents, blank pages, or simply a 404 status code indicating no data can be found. Although these are web servers serving web content, they do not necessarily qualify as websites. The same applies to web servers that serve data designed to interact with other computers, such as API endpoints and content forwarders.

To better understand the distinction between a web server and a website, it may be helpful to examine the various products and technologies associated with web servers. Our data provides visibility into over 4,800 products, technologies, and applications running over HTTP, including not only the web servers but also load balancers, APIs, proxies, and more. 

![Figure 3: Top 20 HTTP server technologies observed on hosts]

By examining a higher-level breakdown of the HTTP server technologies across all hosts, we can start to understand the scope of the technologies working alongside HTTP to serve web content.

Of the top 25 technologies we observed, web servers are the most common resources that we see.  Comparing the specific web server products running on named versus unnamed hosts uncovers interesting potential differences in security practices. 

In total, Apache’s HTTPD and Nginx are the most common web server technologies on the internet as a whole, with unnamed hosts accounting for 3% of these while named hosts account for over 20% 

Other popular web server technologies include Microsoft IIS (Internet Information Services), LiteSpeed, and two well-known web servers based on Nginx: OpenResty and Tengine.

When we dig deeper into other web server products beyond the top 20, particularly those running on unnamed hosts,  we note some technologies that have concerning security implications: specifically, Hikvision and Boa web servers.

Hikvision web servers are web interfaces used to manage Hikvision video surveillance products, including network cameras and video recorders. In 2021 a critical unauthenticated command injection vulnerability was patched in Hikvision firmware. This vulnerability, CVE-2021-36260, allowed threat actors to gain administrative-level access to affected devices. Censys sees 1.5 million hosts running Hikvision web applications, with nearly 80% of these observed as unnamed hosts. There are potentially tens of thousands of Hikvision devices worldwide that are still vulnerable. 

> In 2021 a critical unauthenticated command injection vulnerability was patched in Hikvision firmware. This vulnerability, CVE-2021-36260, allowed threat actors to gain administrative-level access to affected devices. There are potentially tens of thousands of Hikvision devices worldwide that are still vulnerable.

Boa is an open-source web server primarily designed for embedded applications but has since been discontinued. However, Boa servers remain in use, and unfortunately, they suffer from various known vulnerabilities. Additionally, the absence of fundamental built-in security measures, including access controls, requires the underlying application to handle all security features. Censys detected one million of these servers running exposed to the Internet.An ongoing attack on critical Indian electrical grid assets detailed by Recorded Future was found by Microsoft researchers to be targeting exposed IoT devices running Boa web servers.

> Boa is an open-source web server that was primarily designed for embedded applications but has since been discontinued. Boa servers remain in use, and unfortunately, they suffer from various known vulnerabilities. There are over a million of these exposed servers currently running on unnamed hosts. An ongoing attack on critical Indian electrical grid assets was found to be targeting exposed IoT devices running Boa web servers.

## WHAT’S OUT THERE BEYOND WEB SERVERS?
Many other technologies we see running on HTTP services, while not directly serving web content, work to support content delivery.

One example is load balancers, another significant technology we see running on HTTP. These technologies help distribute incoming web traffic across multiple backend servers to prevent any single system from becoming overwhelmed. Load balancers are often used to help applications run smoothly amidst spikes in traffic and server failures. They can also provide protection against various types of cyber attacks, including distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks, by effectively blocking potentially malicious traffic.

The most commonly used load balancers on HTTP services we see in our data include CloudFlare, CloudFront, and AWS Elastic Load Balancer, with the latter two being Amazon products.

Besides web servers and load balancers, there are other types of software products commonly used on HTTP services, such as web hosting admin panels, CDN servers, and web proxies. In this overview, we will highlight the most popular software products in each of these categories found in our data: 

Web Hosting Admin Panels: Web hosting admin panels, also known as control panels, provide a web-based interface for users and administrators for web hosting providers to manage their servers. In other words, they are specialized web-based software for managing other web servers but don’t directly serve website content. Several types of admin panels are available, but some of the most popular ones we see in our data are cPanel and Plesk. These are both more commonly found on named hosts running HTTP.

Web Proxy Servers: Web proxy servers act as intermediaries between end users and the web services they access on the internet. Caching proxies store popular web content to improve delivery speed and reduce bandwidth, while reverse proxies function as gateways that handle incoming requests to a web server. The most popular web proxies we see in our data is Squid, which is primarily used as a caching proxy. Squid is much more prevalent on unnamed hosts.Note that Nginx can also be used as a reverse proxy.

CDN Servers: We also see specialized proxies in the form of Content Delivery Network (CDN) servers, also known as edge servers. Edge servers are globally distributed caching proxies that CDN providers deploy to improve website load times and reduce costs. They can also handle other tasks like load balancing, SSL termination, and security filtering for the web. CDNs serve a large portion of the internet content today, particularly for applications that include video streaming and software downloads. The most common CDN edge server we see running on HTTP is Ghost, developed by Akamai, one of the leading CDN providers.

Cloud Storage and Bucket Services: Cloud storage and bucket services are remote data storage solutions from cloud providers. In our data, this mainly comprises Amazon S3 buckets, which are found more commonly on named hosts. S3 is commonly used for big data analytics and storing application data such as images and videos for websites, user data, and database backups.

Web-Based APIs: Web-based APIs are widely used in web and mobile applications to allow different systems to communicate with each other over HTTP and integrate popular services. The top web-based API we observed in our data was Microsoft’s HTTP API, which allows developers to build applications that can speak to various Microsoft software products such as Microsoft Office 365 and Azure. We mostly observed this API on unnamed hosts running HTTP. 

In addition to examining software products and technologies, another perspective on what runs on an HTTP service is the content it returns to client requests, commonly referred to as the response body. Our analysis of the types of content found on HTTP services reveals that the overwhelming majority of responses are in HTML. This suggests that most HTTP services, whether on unnamed or named hosts, are websites or website-adjacent. 

Beyond HTML, however, we discover some intriguing examples of more specialized content on HTTP services:

We observe other types of markup languages here, such as XML and SGML, which are similar to HTML but designed for different purposes. XML was written to transport data with less emphasis on how that data is presented. SGML is a language for defining other languages. Further, we encounter other types of machine-readable data, such as JSON data and Smile, which is a binary format based on JSON. These are likely reflections of various services that exchange data over HTTP but may not necessarily qualify as websites or be designed for human consumption.

| Content Type                | Unnamed Service Count | Named Service Count |
| --------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------- |
| ASCII Text                  | 10.6M                 | 44.4M               |
| Unicode Document            | 1.1M                  | 543.2K              |
| XML 1.0 Document            | 729.5K                | 81.5K               |
| JSON Text Data              | 246.8K                | 119.2K              |
| Exported SGML Document      | 49.6K                 | 117.6K              |
| GIF Image Data              | 10.4K                 | 13.3K               |
| Smile Binary Data           | 1.2K                  | 2.6K                |
| PDF Document                | 412                   | 13981               |
| MS-DOS Executable           | 164                   | 2159                |
| SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) Image | 123                   | 5652                |

Although not exhaustive, this provides a glimpse into the wide range of technologies and datatypes that can be found on HTTP. While a significant portion of HTTP involves websites or related technologies, it’s apparent that maintaining the web requires more than just web servers running websites.

# X.509 Certificates and the Quest for a More Secure Internet
Part Four

We interact with certificates daily while using the modern internet. They’re now such an integral part of the secure internet infrastructure that we rarely think about them unless they expire or are missing from a website. X.509 certificates are often known as SSL or TLS certificates; X.509 refers to the standard that defines the format for public key certificates.

X.509 certificates (we’ll just call them “certificates”) serve two primary purposes:
1. Certificates enable encryption for web traffic – This means threat actors can’t easily intercept and read the data passed between a client and server. There was a time when one could be on the same broadcast domain as another user, fire up a network sniffer, and effortlessly monitor unencrypted web traffic. The ubiquity of certificates has made this an increasingly rare and largely unsuccessful practice.
2. Certificates act as identity verification – When an entity obtains a certificate from a trusted certificate authority (CA), it must provide evidence of its identity. In some cases, this means providing proof of ownership of a domain (DV) or a meeting with an employee from the organization requesting the cert (EV). When a site presents a certificate from a CA, it’s evidence that they have successfully verified their identity and are who they say they are.

While certificates have provided an additional layer of security on the web, the presence of a certificate on a website should not be confused with its legitimacy. Browsers display a padlock icon to indicate that a site is served over HTTPS, which could lead users to believe that the site is secure. However, threat actors have exploited this common misconception by creating certificates for phishing sites to help them appear more legitimate. While free certificate services like Let’s Encrypt aim to democratize the use of certificates, they have also enabled bad actors to obtain legitimate-looking certificates for malicious purposes.

Today, much of the web has shifted toward Domain Validation (DV) certificates over Organization Validation (OV) and Extended Validation (EV) as a result of several factors:
- Perhaps most importantly, DV certificates can be issued via an Automatic Certificate Management Environment (ACME), making it much less likely that a domain’s certificate protection will lapse sans human intervention. Chromium reports that over 50% of certificates issued by web PKI rely on ACME, while 95% of web PKI-issued certs come from CAs with some form of ACME available. 
- In the past, web browsers would display an organization’s name in the URL bar alongside a padlock icon to provide an extra layer of validation and security. However, this practice has been largely discontinued, and currently, unless a user explicitly checks a website’s certificate, all types of certificates, including DV, OV, and EV, are presented identically.
- DV certificates are freely available from providers like Let’s Encrypt, providing a minimal barrier to adoption, even for small personal or hobby sites.

As of March 2023, our certificates dataset has archived over 6.7 billion certificates. We use Mozilla’s NSS root store to find that over 514 million are browser-trusted, 4.4 billion were previously trusted, and 1.8 billion are not and never have been browser trusted (i.e., self-signed certificates). 

![Figure 4: Time series heatmap of CA market share over time; all other CAs quite literally pale in comparison to Let’s Encrypt even only several years after they began issuing certificates. Grey regions on the heatmap represent times when CAs named along the y axis were/are not issuing certificates.]

Examining CA market share over the last 10 years, we can see that it has shifted dramatically. GoDaddy.com and DigiCert are the only major CAs from 2012 who remain in the top 10 in 2023, though with much less market share.

Let’s Encrypt has significantly impacted internet security and HTTPS adoption since its founding in 2014. By offering free and easy access to X.509 certificates, Let’s Encrypt has made a major contribution to the democratization of certificates for individuals and organizations. Let’s Encrypt is the largest CA, representing over 49% of all browser-trusted certificates in our data.

![Figure 5: Treemap illustrating market share of the top 10 CAs who have issued certificates that are currently browser-trusted, March 2023.]

# Encryption of Web Entities on the Internet
Before HTTPS, most web entities communicated over plain text HTTP, which meant that any data exchanged between a web client and web server – including users’ sensitive information and passwords – was transmitted in unencrypted transports and could be intercepted by a third party via man-in-the-middle attacks. 

Certificates are instrumental in the widespread adoption of HTTPS and provide the basis for establishing trust between the web client and the web property and protecting sensitive information exchanged between the two. 

Although HTTPS has become the norm for web entities that handle data, sensitive or not, many unencrypted HTTP services still exist online. Furthermore, even though TLS version 1.3 was ratified in 2018, its predecessors are still used to serve content. As with anything on the internet, enhancing security and privacy requires time and effort.

Comparing HTTPS adoption on web entities running on named versus unnamed from a snapshot in early 2023, we see a more significant proportion of TLS services on named hosts. Of all the HTTPS services we see, over 85% of them are running on named hosts.
 
![Figure 6: Encryption (HTTPS) adoption across named and unnamed hosts]

## Encrypted Services
Of all HTTPS services we observed on the internet, the vast majority were running TLS 1.3 and 1.2, which are widely accepted as the two strongest versions currently available.

![Figure 7: Percentage of HTTPS services by highest negotiated TLS version detected]

Of these, less than 1%, which accounts for over 3 million services, negotiated at TLS versions 1.0 or 1.1. These versions have been considered deprecated since 2021. It should be noted that TLS 1.1 is now so rare that it doesn’t even appear on our graph above (Figure 7). Below are the top ASes where these services are still negotiating TLS versions older than 1.2:

![Figure 8: Top autonomous systems by the count of how many HTTP services they host with TLS 1.1 or 1.0 as the highest negotiated TLS version]

There are various reasons why some organizations may still use older versions of TLS for encrypting their services, including the need to support legacy systems that are not compatible with newer TLS versions and cost and resource constraints associated with upgrading their infrastructure. However, it’s important to note that using outdated TLS versions can pose security risks. To ensure the highest level of security for HTTP services, it is generally recommended to use the latest TLS version available and to regularly update and patch systems to mitigate potential vulnerabilities.

Since early 2022, Censys has observed just over a 20% increase in the proportion of HTTP services capable of negotiating with the highest version of TLS, TLS 1.3, and a 30% decrease in negotiating with TLS 1.0.

| HTTP Services by TLS Version |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  