Table of ContentsExecutive Summary 3Extortion Is on the Rise 5Why Having Backups Is No Longer Enough 7Common Extortion Tactics 9Who Is Being Attacked? 14Insights From Dark Web Leak Sites 15Industries Most Heavily Impacted 18Regions Most Heavily Impacted 21What Are Extortion Threat Groups After? 22What You Can Expect From an Attack: An Example Ransomware Incident 25When APTs Use Ransomware 29Conclusion: What to Expect From Extortion Groups in 2023 32Reach Out to Experts 38Methodology 39Unit 42 Incident Response Methodology 40About Palo Alto Networks and Unit 42 41Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|2Executive SummaryThreat actors are increasingly employingOrganizations, in turn, need to evolve defensesextortion techniques to gain leverage overto address the various methods threat actors usetargeted organizations and accomplish theirto apply pressure. Incident response plans todaygoals. While much attention has been paid toneed to involve not only technical considerationsransomware in recent years, modern threat actorsbut also safeguards for an organizationsincreasingly use additional extortion techniquesreputation and considerations for how to protectto coerce targets into payingor dispense withemployees or customers who may becomeransomware altogether and practice extortion ontargets for some of extortionists moreits own.aggressive tactics.While in many cases the motivation is financial,In our review of incident response cases, as wellUnit 42 also sees indications that extortion canas our threat intelligence analysts assessment ofhappen in service of a groups larger goalsthe larger threat landscape, we noted somesometimes simply to fund other activities, butkey points:other times to distract from them.Multi\-extortion tactics continue to rise.Harassment is another extortion tactic weIn Unit 42 ransomware cases, as of late 2022,see being used in more ransomware cases.threat actors engaged in data theft in about 70%Ransomware threat actor groups will targetof cases on average. Compare this to mid\-2021,specific individuals in the organization, oftenand we saw data theft in only about 40% of casesin the C\-suite, with threats and unwantedon average. Threat actors often threaten to leakcommunications. By late 2022, harassment wasstolen data on dark web leak sites, which area factor in about 20% of ransomware cases.increasingly a key component of their efforts toCompare this to mid\-2021, when harassment wasextort organizations.a factor in less than 1% of Unit 42ransomware cases.Victims pay toregain accessAttackers threaten toDDoS attacks shutCustomers, businessrelease stolen datadown public websitespartners, andmedia contactedEncryptionData TheftDDoSHarassmentRansomware and Extortion Report 2023\|3MExtortion gangs are opportunistic, but there areout\-of\-date software that isnt regularly orsome patterns in the organizations they attack.easily updated or patchednot to mentionBased on our analysis of dark web leak sites,the industrys low tolerance for downtime.manufacturing was one of the most targetedindustries in 2022, with 447 compromisedOrganizations based in the United States wereorganizations publicly exposed on leak sites.most severely affected, according to leak siteUnit 42 believes this is due to the prevalencedata, accounting for 42% of the observedof systems used by this industry running onleaks in 2022\.Large, multinational organizations canorganizations on the Forbes Global 2000 listbe lucrative targets for threat actors.were publicly impacted by extortion attempts.Attacks on the worlds largest organizationsSince 2019, at least 96 of these organizationsrepresent a small but notable percentagehave had confidential files publicly exposed toof public extortion incidents. In 2022, 30some degree as part of attempted extortion.Advanced threat groups may use extortionOther threat groups, including some from Iran orand ransomware to fund other activities China, seem to have a different objective whenor hide them. Threat groups from countriesusing ransomware. Threat actors can gain moreunder economic embargoes or sanctions havethan money from deploying ransomware it alsobeen observed using ransomware and extortionhas potential for both destruction and espionage.to fund their operations.Predictions for what to expect from extortionA rise in extortion related toin the coming year. Unit 42 experts have putinsider threats.together predictions for what we expect tosee from extortion groups in the coming year.Our predictions include:2023 will be the year we see a largecloud ransomware compromise.A rise in politically motivatedextortion attempts.The use of ransomware and extortionto distract from attacks aimed to infectthe supply chain or source code.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|4ELAPExtortion Is on the RiseThe number one goal for many criminal threatDistributed Denial of Service (DDoS):actors is getting paid, and theyll do whateverWebsites or other resources are targeted via athey can to improve the chances of thatDDoS attack to disrupt operations and to gethappening. As such, we are seeing threat actorsan organizations attention.increasingly focus on extortion techniquesoftenlayering them on top of each other.Harassment:Ransomware actors, for example, often use avariety of extortion techniques (called multi\-extortion) to pressure organizations into makingthe difficult decision to pay ransom.Unit 42 has observed the following extortiontactics employed and threatened by ransomwarethreat actors:Encryption:Threat actors may call, email, orotherwise contact an organizationsemployees or customers. They may alsopost on social media about the incident orcontact journalists.In a selected set of Unit 42 incidentsinvolving ransomware, we have seen significantincreases in threat actors use of data theftand harassment.An organizations data and files are encrypted,Threat actors also simply use extortion.and the threat actor demands payment inAbout 10% of the extortion incidents Unit 42order to restore access to them. This hasresponded to in the period covered did notlong been the primary extortion tactic ofinvolve encryption.ransomware.Data Theft:Threat actors acquire an organizations dataand threaten to disseminate it unless they arepaid. This often involves dark web leak sites.Threat actors increasingly target informationthat may be particularly sensitive, such as filescontaining personally identifiable information(PII), customer financial data, protected healthinformation (PHI), etc.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|5Threat actors 
use of additional 
extortion tacticsRansomware and Extortion Report 2023\|6Why Having Backups 
Is No Longer EnoughWith ransomware incidents grabbing attentionOften, the threat of disclosure of sensitive dataof lateboth in the news and within securityis what coerces organizations to pay the ransom.teamsmany organizations have absorbed theSuch leaks can cause reputational damage, lossbasic concepts of how to defend against them.of confidence from consumers and partners, andRansomware actors typically encrypt files topotential fines and sanctions from regulators andrender them unusable and then demand ransomauthoritiesnone of which can be preventedin exchange for a decryptor to recover encryptedby backups.data. The traditional advice for getting ahead ofthis type of attack is therefore to keep up\-to\-dateWeve also seen incidents in which organizationsbackups, stored offline, and test them often,decided not to pay ransom because they hadso that your data is never fully at the mercy of astrong backups, but the threat actors followed upthreat actor.with harassment campaigns so intense that theresulting costs exceeded the ransom demanded.This is still a vital safeguard. Unfortunately, manyof todays threat actors have introduced sucheffective extortion techniques that they cancoerce the victim to pay even if theyve alreadybacked up and protected their data and canminimize operational disruption fromsuch attacks.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|7N
OIT
ADNEMMOCE
RUNIT 42 EXECUTIVERECOMMENDATION:Prepare a Playbook
for Multi\-ExtortionDuring an active extortion incident, rapidsupport from your incident response partnerand outside legal counsel is critical. From amitigation perspective, having a comprehensiveincident response plan with corresponding crisiscommunication protocols will greatly reduceuncertainty. Its important to know whichstakeholders should be involved and the processto make decisions promptly (e.g whether or notto pay, or who is authorized to approve payments).The crisis communication plan should alsocover what to do (or avoid doing) in the eventthat employees or clients are being harassed.Ransomware harassment awareness trainingshould be delivered to an organizations staff toequip them with tools and processes to followduring an active harassment incident.Organizations should conduct a post\-mortemcompromise assessment to validate that anyremnant backdoors or other indicators ofcompromise (IoCs) (e.g. scheduled tasks or jobs)have been removed. This ensures that the threatactor cannot easily conduct a follow\-up attackafter an initial breach.Read Mitigating Cyber Risks with MITREATT\&CK for an in\-depth set of recommendationsby Unit 42 incident responders.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|8Common Extortion TacticsEncryptionEncryption is a tactic commonly favored bywarns against attempting to circumventransomware threat actors. Criminal groups oftenthe attack.tout the facility and speed of their encryptionsoftware as a means to recruit affiliates. TheHowever, threat actors are moving away fromtypical approach, following an initial breach, is torelying on encryption alone to extort payment.deploy malware that encrypts files and delivers aThe majority of Unit 42s ransomware incidentsransom note. This note promises the delivery ofinvolving negotiation also included at least onea decryptor upon payment, provides instructionsadditional extortion tactic.for how to contact the threat actorand often\>\> What happened?Important files on your network was ENCRYPTED and now they have \[REDACTED] extension.
In order to recover your files you need to follow instructions below.\>\> Sensitive DataSensitive data on your network was DOWNLOADED.
If you DONT WANT your sensitive data to be PUBLISHED you have to act quickly.Data includes:
\* Employees personal data, CVs, DL, SSN.
\* Complete network map including credentials for local and remote services.
\* Private financial information including:citizens data, courts data, bills,
budgets, annual reports, bank statements, etc
Samples are available on your personal web page linked below.\>\> CAUTIONDO NOT MODIFY ENCRYPTED FILES YOURSELF.
DO NOT USE THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE TO RESTORE YOUR DATA.
YOU MAY DAMAGE YOUR FILES, IT WILL RESULT IN PERMANENT DATA LOSS.\>\> What should I do next?1\) Download and install Tor Browser from: https:torproject.org
1\. Navigate to: \[REDACTED]Figure 2\. An example of a BlackCat ransom note dropped on a compromised systemRansomware and Extortion Report 2023\|9Data Theft and Multi\-ExtortionRansomware groups have threatened to leak datamany threat actors target regulated data sets orstolen from victims in about 53% of ransomwarehighly commercially sensitive information forincidents involving negotiation between mid\-2021maximum leverage.and late 2022\. Due to the efficacy of this tactic,There are many journalists asking questions about us and our attacks.
If you are a journalist and want to ask some questions you should write:1\. Who are you?
1\. Where are you from?
1\. Where will you publish our answers?We are trying to answer everyone in 24 hoursFrequently Asked Questions:
Why did you choose GTA as branding?
\-Some old articles about us used GTA logo, so we decided to use it too.How long have you beenn in operation?
\-From January 2021\.Are you recruiting partners or are you closed?
\-We have been closed from the beginning and we dont have affiliates.How did you decide to team up and start a dedicated ransomware group? How was ViceSociety born?
\-Group of friends that were interested in pentest. We decided to try.What do you do if the law says that someone cant pay you? Does that matter? What happens if the customer doesnt respond?
\-We dont care about laws. If someone doesnt pay or doesnt contact us, we will publish their documents.Has Vice Society published all the data it took from company name or does Vice Society have additional data that still has not been published?
\-We always publish everything.Can you explain your decision to publish company name data?
\-They didnt pay.We DONT answer questions like:
What country or region of the world are you from?
How old are you?
What vulnseve do you use?2021 Copyright Vice Society. All rights reserved. Emails: V.society.official@onionmail.org. Vice Society@onionmail.orgFigure 3\. A page for journalists from Vice Societys leak siteRansomware and Extortion Report 2023\|10Often known as multi\-extortion, this tacticeffective at coercing payment than data thefttypically involves publicly posting informationand harassment.about breached organizations to a websitemaintained by the threat actors on the dark web.HarassmentThese dark web leak sites sometimes threatento sell data to third parties after the deadlinefor paying a ransom has passed. In other cases,threat actors simply threaten to post thedata publicly.The leak sites often include some version of ablog, or what appears to be a customer serviceportal, providing ways for affected organizationsto view the status of their ransom demand andcommunicate with the threat actors. Some leaksites even have a section aimed at journalistsseeking information about the ransomware group,a clear attempt by the cybercriminals to boosttheir notoriety in the cyber landscape.During an 18\-month span between May 2021through October 2022, data theft leveraged asan extortion tactic grew by 30 percentage points.Unit 42 expects this upward trend of data theftand multi\-extortion to continue.Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)Unit 42 has observed threat actors leveragingharassment as an extortion tactic in at least 9%of our ransomware incidents involving negotiationoverall. As with DDoS, threat actors generallyemploy this extortion tactic when trying to getan organizations attention. However, unlike withDDoS, threat actors seem to be turning to thisextortion tactic more often.Threat actors call and leave voicemailsfor corporate executive leaders and otheremployees, send emails to personnel, ordisclose victims identities on a leak site orsocial media. The purpose of these activities isto make it uncomfortable for an organization toavoid responding to the threat actors and theirdemands. Not only is the organization facedwith responding to a ransomware incident, butnow they also have a personnel public relationssituation to deal with.During an 18\-month span between May 2021through October 2022, harassment as anextortion tactic grew from an average of \<1%While DDoS remains an extortion tactic, Unitof Unit 42s monthly ransomware cases to a42 has only observed this in less than 2% ofmonthly average of approximately 20%. Whileransomware cases. In these cases, threatthe available data and case information reflect anactors have used DDoS to get an organizationsupward trend, the information available is limitedattention if the victim chose to ignore them ratherand contains significant outliers. As such, whilethan communicate about payment of a ransom.we believe this extortion tactic will continue to beWhile we continue to observe the tactic in useused by threat actors, it is difficult to predict howoccasionally, we believe that it has not grown infrequently it will occur in the future. Unit 42 willpopularity among threat actors because it is lessbe closely monitoring this trend.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|11Extortion Without EncryptionAbout 10% of Unit 42s incident responseWeve also investigated several incidentsmatters involving extortion do not involverelated to the Luna MothSilent Ransom Group.encryption. Often, these extortion attemptsThese threat actors are known for an extortionrely on data theft.campaign targeting businesses in multiplesectors, including legal and retail. Rather thanHowever, in a small number of cases, threatencryption, the campaign relies on socialactors have deleted organizations dataengineering to convince targets to providealtogether. This is particularly prevalent inremote access to systems. They then use thatmatters involving databases that were vulnerableaccess to exfiltrate data and follow up withand directly exposed to the internet. Thereextortion attempts.are several automated threats that delete thedatabase contents, claim to have exfiltratedthem, and leave behind an extortion message in anew database table for the victims to find.Using data theft as an extortion tactic withoutencryption was most frequently seen in Unit 42cases involving the Karakurt ransomware group.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|12N
OIT
ADNEMMOCE
RUNIT 42 EXECUTIVERECOMMENDATION:Ensure Complete Visibility via 
Extended Detection and Response 
(XDR) TechnologyWhen it comes to protecting your organizationfrom threats, you must be able to see them. Oneof the greatest ways to protect your organizationis to increase visibility of activity in yourenvironments. Cortex XDR technology allowsdefenders to see activity on endpoints in near realtime and respond to attacks quickly.By empowering your defenders to isolatecomputers as malicious activity is detected,you can help reduce the likelihood of attackersspreading to other endpoints. This in turn reducesthe impact of ransomware encryption. Toincrease protection, mature organizations movetoward automating this isolation via SecurityOrchestration, Automation, and Response(Cortex XSOAR) technology. This can beimportant as attackers may operate when yourteam is not working.Read Mitigating Cyber Risks with MITREATT\&CK for an in\-depth set of recommendationsby Unit 42 incident resonders.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|13Who Is Being Attacked?Threat actors interested in extortion areCybercriminals out to make a name forfrequently opportunistic, targeting whicheverthemselves may also seek to leak data from well\-organizations they believe will pay. Because someknown organizations.criminals provide services to other threat actors,it can be difficult to discern the behavior ofIn some cases, threat actors display politicalparticular gangs. In part because of this, extortionmotivations or regional preferences. For example,can affect organizations large and small acrosssome samples of ransomware have beenvarious industries and regions.observed to check systems for Cyrillic characters,typical of Eastern European languages, and avoidHowever, many groups focus on profitableencrypting files when they are found.organizationsa practice sometimes knownas big\-game hunting. Large, multinationalAt times, extortionists do seem to favororganizations often have the means to pay largertargets in particular industries. For example,sums of money and have the motivation to pay toVice Society has a reputation for targetingavoid disruption of business operations. Althougheducational institutions.these organizations may be better prepared towithstand cyberattacks on a daily basis, they canCombining our observations from incidentstill be vulnerable to extortion.response cases and our ongoing monitoring ofFor example, less\-protected subsidiaries, satelliteview of who criminal groups are attacking.activity on dark web leak sites, we can provide aoffices, or remote workers could be impacted byransomware in an attempt to move laterally toaccess an organizations crown jewels. We haveobserved ransomware groups focusing efforts onregional officesa practice that could impact thelarger organization.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|14Insights From Dark Web Leak SitesEvery day, our threat researchers see informationIts also worth mentioning that when we trackabout seven new victims posted to dark weborganizations whose information was postedleak sitesaveraging out to about one publiclyon a leak site, we are typically looking at thoseposted new extortion target every four hours. Inwho chose not to pay the criminal groups2022, names and proof of compromise for 2,679original demand. Therefore, the actual globalvictims were posted on leak sites, about 4%impact of gangs who maintain leak sites is higherhigher than the number observed in 2021\.than what we can observe therepresumably,In 2022, the extortion group LockBitposted information about 801 breachedorganizations on their leak site, the highestvictim count we have observed in the lasttwo years from any one group. LockBitposted 409 victims in 2021, meaning thatin 2022, we saw a 95% increase in victimcount compared to last years entries.By comparison, Conti posted 511 victimsin 2021\.Attacks on the worlds largest organizationsrepresent a small but notable percentage ofthese incidents. In 2022, 30 organizations on theForbes Global 2000 list were publicly impactedby extortion attempts from groups includingLockBit, Conti, BlackCat, Hive, and Black Basta.Since 2019, at least 96 of these organizationshave had confidential files publicly exposed tosome degree as part of attempted extortion.some organizations choose to pay to keep theirinformation off the dark web.A few frequent practitioners of the multi\-extortion strategy, such as Conti and REvil,dissolved in 2022\. However, we expect othercriminals to continue making heavy use ofthis approach to extortion. As noted above,cybercriminals threatened to leak stolen datain about 70% of ransomware cases involvingnegotiation in late 2022\. The cybersecurityindustry has also observed signs that individualsfrom the Conti and REvil groups continue to havean influence on the cybercriminal community, asformer members of those gangs start new illicitendeavors and bring many of their tacticswith them.While they represent a body of evidence of thedamage extortionists do to organizations, leaksites also provide visibility into these groupsresources, capabilities, and typical approaches.Unit 42 keeps tabs on them as part of our ongoingmonitoring of the global threat landscape.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|15Data Extortionist Groups and the 
Global 2000Karakurt, named the Extortion Branch of Conti,Other groups try to make a name for themselveswas responsible for various notorious incidentsby attacking the worlds most recognizablein 2022\. For example, they attacked one of theorganizations. For example, Lapsus$, alargest Chinese investment holding companies,cybercrime group that emerged in mid\-2021, wasallegedly stealing 320 GB of corporate data.responsible for compromising organizations suchas NVIDIA, Samsung, Microsoft, and LG.This group gains access to corporate networkseither through their own expertise or by payingTo accomplish this, Lapsus$ mostly usedinitial access brokers (who sell access tosocial engineering (including phishing and SIMbreached networks). Karakurt forgoes encryptionswapping) for initial access. This group also triedin favor of other methods of extortion, suchto entice disgruntled employees to provide themas contacting victims employees, businesswith inside information in exchange for payment.partners, and clients with harassing emails andEven well\-defended organizations can struggle tophone calls to pressure the victims to cooperate.prevent attacks targeted at insiders inThey often exacerbate the situation by using thethis manner.organizations own data against them.While the group extorted some victims, theysometimes appeared more interested in thenotoriety of compromising high\-profile targets.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|16N
OIT
ADNEMMOCE
RUNIT 42 EXECUTIVERECOMMENDATION:Implement a Threat
Intelligence ProgramOrganizations can learn about the tactics,techniques, and procedures (TTPs) thatthreat actors use to successfully compromisetheir industry peers and conduct attacks.Organizations must have a chartered, funded, andstaffed threat intelligence program in place.The program will provide the blue team (theirdefenders) with net new, specific indicatorssourced from the threat intelligence team. Thesecan be used to monitor for the latest TTPs,enabling rapid detection and mitigation of a full\-scale ransomware attack.Unit 42 consultants can help with designinga modern, threat\-informed security programor enhance the effectiveness of your existingprogram based on lessons learned from ourincident response investigations.Read Mitigating Cyber Risks with MITREATT\&CK for an in\-depth set of recommendationsby Unit 42 incident responders.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|17Industries Most Heavily ImpactedBased on both Unit 42s data and dark web leakThis gives the threat actors a rapidly expandingsite data, the manufacturing industry was oneattack surface through which they can deployof the most impacted by extortion attacks intheir attacks. The bigger the scale, the bigger2022, with 447 victims listed on various sites.the payout.Following this sector was the professional andlegal services industry, with 343 victims.Criminals often seek targets in industries whereits critical for business operations to be able toIndustries in which organizations often runprovide certain products or services in a timelyon systems with out\-of\-date software can bemanner. The groups aim to take advantage of themore heavily impacted. When its difficult forpressure these organizations are under to meetorganizations to regularly update or patch, threatdeadlines and produce deliverables, hoping thisactors gain an opportunity to take advantage ofwill lead them to pay quickly and in full. Lostold vulnerabilities to initiate their exploits.revenue streams from operational downtimecan also push organizations to concede to threatactors demands.Figure 4\. Industries most heavily impacted by extortion attacks (leak site data, 2022\)Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|18N
OIT
ADNEMMOCE
RUNIT 42 EXECUTIVERECOMMENDATION:Proactively Manage and Reduce
Your Attack Surface InventoryA staggering number (at least 75%) ofransomware attacks and breaches fielded byUnit 42s Incident Response team result froma common culprit: attack surface exposures.Organizations must continuously monitor thehealth, inventory, and accuracy of their externalattack surface.When using our Active Attack SurfaceManagement (ASM) solution Cortex Xpansewith our clients in their environments, Xpansecontinuously monitors all internet\-connectedassets and discovers unknown exposures.Once we receive the contextualized resultsfrom Xpanse, we can prioritize findings to alignthe security concerns with the organizationscritical assets.To illustrate, the analysis report from Xpanseshows all systems running Remote DesktopProtocol (RDP) that are directly accessible fromthe internet. Clients can then decide if Xpanseshould automatically fix these exposures or not.RDP is the most common capabilities used bythreat actors for initial access. Furthermore,RDP is the most impactful tool for lateralmovement once attackers have a footholdinside targeted networks.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|19We also commonly see cybercriminals takingadvantage of expired certificates, deprecatedserver operating system versions, and end\-of\-lifeemail platforms, all items that are automaticallydiscovered by Xpanse. All of these things weredirectly exposed to the internet, giving threatactors a path of least resistance.It is strongly advised that you perform anAttack Surface Assessment if your organizationdoes not have an accurate inventory of yourexternal attack surface, including your cloudassets, or does not actively monitor changesto your external asset estate.Read Mitigating Cyber Risks with MITREATT\&CK for an in\-depth set of recommendationsby Unit 42 incident responders.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|20Regions Most Heavily ImpactedLeak site data indicates the Americas regionGermany and the U.K accounting forwas hit the hardest by extortion attempts innearly 5% each.2022, followed by Europe, the Middle East,and Africa (EMEA), and the Asia PacificThreat actors, due to their financial goals,region (JAPAC).often focus on profitable organizations basedWhen looking at organizations posted on leakconcentration of attacks in the U.S criminalsites by country, the United States is still thegangs have a global presence and have beenmost severely impacted, accounting for 42% ofobserved impacting organizations in 107the observed leaks in 2022\. This is followed bycountries in 2022\.in the United States. However, despite theFigure 5\. Top countries impacted by extortion attempts (leak site data, 2022\)Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|21What Are Extortion
Threat Groups After?While the obvious answer is money, it can beWe often see evidence of threat actors searchinghelpful to take a look at what in your organizationsystems for personal information such astranslates to financial gainfrom the perspective ofidentification numbers, passwords, and othera cybercriminal.credentials. They may seek documents such aspassports and tax forms.First and foremost, threat actors want you tofeel pressured. The more you feel this way, theThreat actors know that many organizationsmore likely you will pay what they demand. Whenare legally (and ethically) obligated to protectcybercriminals use tactics such as harassment andinformation of this type. Multinationalurgency in addition to encryption, theyre trying toorganizations are bound by cyber regulation andmake you feel out of control and under pressuredata protection laws from various parts of theso youll do what they want.worldand failing to meet these requirementscan result in fines, sanctions, the loss ofAnother way threat actors seek to amp up theoperating licenses, and even the imprisonment ofpressure is to search your systems for informationindividuals. Threat actors can take advantage ofabout any insurance policies or financial assets.these types of consequences to exert leverage onOur incident responders have encountered threattheir targets.actors who quote from these internal sourcesduring negotiations and use this information toInformation that can be used in identity theft canform an opinion about how high a ransom anoften be sold to other criminals. And when threatorganization can pay.actors search for passwords, they may be lookingto sell initial access to a compromised network toTodays threat actors, however, are also lookingother criminalsor they may be looking for waysfor ways to multiply their payday. This meansto further the compromise and get deeper into antheyre not only looking for ways to halt theorganizations systems.targeted organizations business operationsbuttheyre also in pursuit of information that could beThese activities underscore the need to protectvaluable to third parties.your systems beyond having backups. Its vital tobe aware of what information is most sensitiveThis creates a win\-win situation for the threatand valuable to your organization and to beactor. If the targeted organization chooses to payconscious of how that information is stored andwhat is demanded, the threat actor makes a profit.who can access it. A Zero Trust approach can helpIf the organization chooses not to pay, the threatminimize the damage a threat actor can do afteractor is still in possession of exfiltrated data theyan initial compromise.can sell. In some cases, cybercriminals may eventry to double dip and make money both ways.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|22N
OIT
ADNEMMOCE
RUNIT 42 EXECUTIVERECOMMENDATION:Implement Enterprise\-Wide
Zero Trust ArchitectureOrganizations that have the capabilities to rapidlycontain the extent of their attack surface willreduce the impact that threat actors will haveif they successfully circumvent other controls.Having an effective Zero Trust architecturemitigates the risk of a threat actor conductinglateral movement, which is a key indicator inadvance of many types of attacks.A huge part of winning the battle againstcyberattacks is successfully making an attackersjob harder. Implementing Zero Trust NetworkArchitecture (or ZTNA) is not an overnightjourney, but is one of the more effectiveframeworksspecifically ZTNA 2\.0, which is arefined version of ZTNA. This framework helpscreate the layers of security that slow down andprevent an attacker from successfully movinglaterally around the network.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|23This framework helps force an attacker to makemore noise to move around or through controls,while also slowing them down. Both of thesethings can provide more time for detection andresponse, giving you a better chance to properlycontain and remediate the threat.Taking it one step further, you can implement aSecure Access Service Edge (SASE) frameworkwith Prisma SASE. Prisma SASE builds onthe principals of ZTNA, but adds guidance onadditional layers of control across web traffic andcloud platforms, in addition to other principles.Read Mitigating Cyber Risks with MITREATT\&CK for an in\-depth set of recommendationsby Unit 42 incident responders.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|24What You Can Expect From 
an Attack: An Example 
Ransomware IncidentAttacks arent a single malicious action.Breaching your network is only one step of a fairlycomplex process. The good news is that everyFinancial Impact of Ransomwaretime threat actors take an action in your networkIn 2022 Unit 42 observed:to further their criminal goals, it presents anopportunity for you to detect their presence orprevent them from having an impact.Below, we tell the story of an exampleRansom demands as low as$3,000 and as high as $50 million.Ransom payments as low as$3,000 and as high as $7 million.ransomware incident, which has been mappedThe median demand was $650,000,to MITRE ATT\&CK tactics and techniques. Thiswhile the median ransom payment wasprovides a sample of how extortion groups mayconduct themselves for maximum profit. Whenplanning your organizations defense, it may be auseful exercise to assess how you might respondto a threat actor using these TTPs.$350,000, a 46% decrease from theoriginal median ransom demand.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|25N
OIT
ADNEMMOCE
RUNIT 42 EXECUTIVERECOMMENDATION:Pressure Test Your
IR Plans and ProgramOrganizations that continuously review, update,and test their incident response plans are muchmore likely to effectively respond and containan active attack. Organizations that conducttabletop exercises, purple teaming tests,breach simulations (automated and manual),and partner with Unit 42 consultants strengthentheir velocity and preparedness when respondingto an active attack.These exercises build the internal and externalcommunication cadence, establish stakeholderrelationships and foster environmentalknowledge sharing in advance of an attack.This significantly increases the likelihood ofearly support and containment. Furthermore,these exercises will likely find opportunities orgaps that result in improved incident responseposture once the gaps are mitigated.Read Mitigating Cyber Risks with MITREATT\&CK for an in\-depth set of recommendationsby Unit 42 incident responders.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|26From First Campaign to Final Impact: 
A MITRE ATT\&CK FlowchartNote: Certain actions in the narrative below are associated with multiple tacticsand techniques, but only one has been listed for each row for the sake of brevity.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|27Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|28Too BigNothing To See Here!Unit 42 continues to see threat actorsartificially increase the size of maliciousscripts and utilities to evade automatedscanning tools, which often havefile size limitations for performancereasons (T1027\.001: Obfuscated Files orInformation: Binary Padding). By addingjunk data to malicious utilities, thesemalicious files may evade detection bysome antivirus and other security softwaresolutions, depending on their configuration.When APTs
Use RansomwareSecurity leaders at large organizations withWhile it makes sense to be concerned aboutmature security programs sometimes assign adetermined and highly skilled threat groupslower risk level to ransomware incidents. Thesethe sorts of threat actors who can circumventorganizations generally have sufficient securityeven a mature organizations security controlstools, robust cyber liability insurance, anddismissing the threat of ransomware can overlookstrong data recovery programs or operationalthe infrequent but impactful ransomware attacksredundancy. Instead of ransomware, thesethat are now run by APT groups.organizations are often more concerned aboutdefending against nation\-state attackers andadvanced persistent threat (APT) groups.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|29Some APT groups use ransomware to raiseRansomware payments could (in somemoney, either for individuals or for theircases) help fund these countries domesticorganization. In other cases, threat actors useprograms, which has led the U.S. Cybersecurityransomware as a distraction from a larger andInfrastructure and Security Agency (CISA) tomore impactful compromise.warn that paying ransomware operators couldAPT Financial Motivationorganizations take proactive steps to preventpose sanctions risks. They also noted that whenThreat groups from countries that have beenobserved using ransomware in their attacks(including North Korea and Iran) are also amongthose currently under economic embargoes orsanctions by the United States government. Thisperhaps gives them extra motivation to seekfinancial benefitand carries legal consequencesthat may eliminate an organizations ability to paya ransom demand.ransomware attacks, the U.S. Treasurys Officeof Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) would be morelikely to resolve apparent sanctions violationswith a nonpublic enforcement response.The British Office of Financial SanctionsImplementation (OFSI) issued sanctions inFebruary against a number of individualsassociated with ransomware groups. Guidancefrom the OFSI indicates that the purpose is todisrupt and reduce the profitabilityThreat groups from North Korea seem particularlyof ransomware.interested in financial gain, as other tacticsobserved in their attacks (such as cryptocurrencytheft and ATM cash\-outs) also fit this pattern.Paying ransoms will likely be even more heavilyscrutinized by governments worldwide, especiallyas nations continue to sanction Russia, withwhich a number of well known ransomwaregroups are associated.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|30APT Smoke Screens and Red HerringsOther threat groups, including some from Iran orDefending Against APTs and 
Cybercrime GroupsChina, seem to have a different objective whenThe TTPs used to deploy ransomware for eitherusing ransomware. Threat actors can gain moreAPT or cybercrime groups are often identical.than money from deploying ransomwareit alsoBoth groups exploit vulnerabilities to gain accesshas potential for both destruction and espionage.to a target system, then compromise credentialsSome malware authors have taken steps toand move laterally.blur the lines between ransomware and wipers.These common areas are where organizationsIranian attackers have specifically used wipersmust focus their defenses and visibility.for destructive effect. Wipers could be veryUnfortunately, paying a ransom is not alwaysuseful for getting rid of evidence of a threatthe end of the story. With APT groups in the mixgroups activities, while creating the appearanceand ransomware groups using multi\-extortionof a ransomware attack. If this approach isin the majority of the cases we see, apparentsuccessful, organizations may not realize the trueransomware attacks are often related to datapurpose of a threat groups intrusion.exfiltration. This can be especially concerningin light of a trend of cyber insurance providersSimilarly, ransomware has been used as astating that acts of war wont be covered. Inway of disguising intellectual property theft orsome cases, a ransomware attack attributable tocyberespionage as something more banal. APTAPT actors could be defined as such.groups steal data from environments and attemptto pass it off as a multi\-extortion scheme,promising to destroy the data if a ransompayment is made. In reality, the stolen data isnot destroyed and is likely used to the threatactors advantage.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|31CONCLUSIONWhat to Expect From 
Extortion Groups in 2023The most important information about thein cloud environments that theyll need tothreat landscape is not where we have been, butwork through.where we are going. When we ask our incidentresponders and threat intelligence analystsHowever, its always been clear thatwhats coming for extortion, they make a fewransomware actors will shift their focus tokey predictions.cloud environments and engage in attacksthat require more skill but could have a largerPrediction \#1: Government involvement willpayoff due to the potential operational impactbe key to disrupting the operations of extortionto organizations. In recent years, Unit 42 hasgroups.tracked cloud threat actorsindividuals orBans on payments to certain groups andgroups posing a threat to organizations throughcountries have changed the landscape of thedirected and sustained access to cloud platformransomware and extortion business. In someresources, services or embedded metadata.cases, concerns about sanctions may haveThese threat actors have evolved their TTPsinfluenced more organizations to refuse to payspecifically to target cloud workloads.threat groups, lowering revenue and causingaffiliates to abandon known groups to work withWhile the shared responsibility model reducesunsanctioned groups instead.users burden in securing infrastructure, platform,and software in the cloud, weve also seenPrediction \#2: This will be the year we see aorganizationsparticularly the worlds largestlarge cloud ransomware compromise.transfer increasing amounts of valuable data andMost of our cloud incident response cases thusworkloads to the public cloud. 2023 will be thefar have shown threat actors reaching for low\-year that this tempts threat actors to make thehanging fruit. Organizations often neglect basicadaptations needed to deploy ransomware insecurity controls and dont take advantage ofcloud environments.security features offered by the major cloudservice providers or additional enhanced cloudWhen this happens, it will raise new questionssecurity tools. While threat actors know aboutabout the shared responsibility modelespeciallythese gaps, theyve mostly chosen to not exploitif ransomware deployed on a cloud servicethese security issues for ransomware andproviders platform manages to affectextortion since there are still some complexitiesmultiple clients.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|32N
OIT
ADNEMMOCE
RUNIT 42 EXECUTIVERECOMMENDATION:Protect Your Cloud ArchitecturesThreat actors will continue to weaponizeand build attack payloads to compromisecloud workloads. As such, it is integral that acomprehensive cloud security program (from agovernance perspective) and a cloud securityplatform (from a technical controls perspective)are both in place at the organization. The cloudsecurity platform should be able to detect andprevent attacks to cloud workloads, networksecurity, code (including infrastructure as codeand source code), containers, identities and keys,and data.Prisma Cloud is one example of a platform thatoffers comprehensive cloud native security.Read Mitigating Cyber Risks with MITREATT\&CK for an in\-depth set of recommendationsby Unit 42 incident responders.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|33Prediction \#3: Threat actors will identifynovel means of initial access.Our incident responders are seeing threatWhat is SEO Poisoning?actors turning to different methods of initialThreat actors leverage search engineaccess, including SEO poisoning (especiallyoptimization (SEO) to infect potentialaugmented by malvertising), callback phishing,victims. Unit 42 has often seen this take theand fake software installs andor updates. Thisform of (fake) software downloads, browseris because of the effectiveness of introducingupdates, or malicious document templates.social engineering elements, as well as the needFor example, a threat actor compromisesto move away from other methods that arelegitimate websites and shares supposedcommonly detected.Prediction \#4: Threat actors willramp up additional extortion methods.templates for common business documenttypes, such as certain accounting or humanresources forms, and these files containmalware. When a victim is searching forOur data already shows an increase of data theftsome kind of template (e.g an invoiceand harassment in conjunction with encryption.template), they find the malicious file viaWe expect this trend to continue as threat actorssearch results and upon downloading andrespond to lower success rates by attempting toopening it, are infected with malware. Thisincrease the pressure to pay. This leads to ourmalware gives the threat actor a footholdnext prediction.into the victims environment. Unit 42 hasrepeatedly seen GootLoader and SocGholishPrediction \#5: Extortion withoutin association with this technique.encryption will rise.As threat actors have found success by addingextortion methods to ransomware, some groupshave drawn the conclusion that extortion canbe effective on its own. Forgoing the encryptionstep allows threat actors to reduce the technicalcomplexity of an attack. We expect more groupsto explore this approach.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|34Prediction \#6: Politically\-motivatedPrediction \#8: Attackers will infectransomware incidents will rise.supply chains and source code of victimsRansomware and extortion are most obviouslybefore using ransomware to distract fromcarried out for financial gain. However, inthe supply chain infection.some cases, these activities can be connectedAs more organizations learn how to dealto political motivations. Groups may usewith ransomware, they may begin to treatransomware to fund other politically\-motivateda ransomware infection as routine. Threatactivities. They may also use ransomwareactors will take advantage of this by deployingand extortion to disrupt the political process,ransomware to distract from the true purposesdestabilize critical infrastructure, create fear andof their attacks. Taken to an extreme, this couldanger at governments, and sow discord.allow threat actors to remain under the radarPrediction \#7: Insider threats willlarge numbers of organizations worldwide.while orchestrating attacks that could affectlead to extortion attempts.In 2023 alone, there have been more thanOrganizations should review incident response100,000 layoffs from more than 300 techplans for ransomware and extortion with acompanies. Some of the people affected willview to the future landscape. We expect highlyhold a grudgeand have the skills to takemotivated threat actors to continue to seekrevenge. Insider threats can be particularlyadditional layers of leverage to get what theydangerous because employees are more likely towant from their targets. We anticipate otherknow where the crown jewels are kept. In todaystypes of threat groups taking advantage ofenvironment, an insider threat can cover theirknown cybercrime techniques. Responsibleidentity by selling access and other information tosecurity leaders should consider that dealingcybercriminal groups, making the act potentiallywith todays extortion techniques goes beyondmore tempting.safeguarding dataas vital as that is. It is also akey responsibility to protect your organizationsreputation, and the safety of employees,partners, and customers.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|35N
OIT
ADNEMMOCE
RUNIT 42 EXECUTIVERECOMMENDATION:Talk to Your Board About 
Ransomware and ExtortionWhen it comes to ransomware, boards aremost concerned with risk management andhow effectively the organization is managingransomware threats to the business. Boardsfrequently ask, after seeing in the news that oneof their peers was significantly hit by ransomwareor extortion, Would we be able to prevent thattype of attack?When the CISO is asked this type of question,they need to have defensible, objective data torespond with that maps directly to the risks thatboards are most concerned with. These risks areoften regarding the following categories:Strategic riskReputational risksCompliance or regulatory concernsOperational issuesFinancial risksThe CISOs reponse should be able to linktheir ransomware and extortion readiness andprevention capabilities to those that wouldmitigate the risk areas that the board isfocused on.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|36Organizations that are well prepared to engage inthese discussions focus on proactively improvingtheir security posture against known attackertactics and techniques. Unit 42 consultantsleverage the experience of responding tothousands of attacks into services that discoverweaknesses for clients. Our consultants workwith clients to build roadmaps and proactivelysecure gaps.These trusted security advisors use Palo AltoNetworks technology to accomplishAttack Surface AssessmentsRansomware Readiness AssessmentsIncident Response PlaybookDesign and ReviewIncident Simulation ExercisesSOC TransformationsUnit 42 consultants also partner with clients todiscover and improve their capabilities to respondwith a host of readiness and testing offeringsaligned with the goals of the CISO and the needsof the board.Read Mitigating Cyber Risks with MITREATT\&CK for an in\-depth set of recommendationsby Unit 42 incident responders.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|37S
TREPX
EO
TT
U
OH
CAE
RNeed help with a ransomware orextortion incident? Call in the experts.If your files and applications are inaccessibledue to a ransomware attack, please contactus. The Unit 42 Incident Response team isavailable 247, year\-round, and can swiftly helpinvestigate, contain, and eradicate the threat, soyou can restore operations quickly. And while wehope you never need it, we can help negotiateransom demands on your behalf.Additionally, with a Unit 42 Retainer in place,you can make our incident response experts anextension of your teamon speed dial. You canalso choose to allocate your retainer credits forproactive Unit 42 cyber risk management services,such as a Ransomware Readiness Assessment.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|38MethodologyIn creating this report, we reviewed the findingsWe also gathered information from our ongoingfrom a selection of approximately 1,000 incidentmonitoring of dark web leak sites, as well asresponse cases Unit 42 completed betweenour threat intelligence analysts work trackingMay 2021 and October 2022\. We reviewed acybercrime groups and APTs.smaller subset (about 100 cases) for insightsinto ransomware and extortion negotiations.Finally, we supplemented our case data byWhile the majority of cases were located in theconducting in\-depth interviews with experiencedU.S the threat actors conducting attacks weresecurity consultants to gather recommendationslocated worldwide while targeting businesses,and predictions based on their work with clientsorganizations, and IT infrastructure worldwide.in specific areas of expertise.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|39Unit 42 Incident Response MethodologyEvery minute that an attack remains unresolvedcosts your organization money and can damageInvestigateits reputation. With Unit 42 Incident ResponseWe work to fully understand the incident asteam experts by your side, you will jump\-startwe investigate what happened, leveraging theyour investigation and take advantage of ouravailable data and working alongside your team.experience responding to thousands of incidentssimilar to yours. With our threat\-informedSecureapproach to incident response and advancedAs the incident is contained and the threattools across endpoint, network, and cloud, weactor and their tools are eradicated from yourprovide fast containment to minimize the impactenvironment, we concurrently assist youron your business.organization with rapidly restoring operations.Unit 42s average response timehow long itSupport and Reporttakes us to make initial contact after receiving aUnit 42 will also assist you in understandingrequest for assistanceis well under 15 minutes.the root cause and potential impact of theOnce called in, we work quickly to understandincident, including any unauthorized access orthe full scope of the intrusion, which systemsacquisition of sensitive information that mayare impacted, and what security actions havetrigger legal obligations.already been taken so we can quickly contain theincident. We do this quickly, and remotely, to helpTransformyou respond to an incident with speed. We followWe believe a key step in incident response isthe proven methodology outlined below.helping ensure an improved security postureWe follow a proven methodology:specific improvements and build out incidentScoperesponse plans that will help protect againstFor an accurate understanding of the incident,future and similar attacks.going forward. We work with you to applyits critical to get the scoping phase right. Thisallows us to align the right resources and skill setsto get your organization back running as quicklyas possible and accurately estimate the level ofeffort needed to assist you.Learn more about Unit 42
Incident Response servicesSCOPEINVESTIGATESECURESUPPORT \& 
REPORTTRANSFORMDefine engagementFully understand theContain and eradicateFindings and responseImprove your securityscopeincidentAssess the breadth, 
severity, and nature of 
the security incident.Our experts use 
advanced tools for 
evidence collection, 
detection and analysis 
to flag IoCs, TTPs and 
other clues.We remove thethreat with customeradication strategiesand provide 247monitoring against newmalicious activity.Threat IntelligenceassistancepostureGet a detailed 
investigation report 
as well as guidance 
in implementing 
additional security 
controls while you get 
back on your feet.Use lessons learned 
and apply specific 
improvements to your 
security approach to 
protect against future 
and similar attacks.Ransomware and Extortion Report 2023\|40About Palo Alto NetworksPalo Alto Networks is the worlds cybersecurity leader. We innovate to outpace cyberthreats,so organizations can embrace technology with confidence. We provide next\-gen cybersecurity tothousands of customers globally, across all sectors. Our best\-in\-class cybersecurity platforms andservices are backed by industry\-leading threat intelligence and strengthened by state\-of\-the\-artautomation. Whether deploying our products to enable the Zero Trust Enterprise, respondingto a security incident, or partnering to deliver better security outcomes through a world\-classpartner ecosystem, were committed to helping ensure each day is safer than the one before.Its what makes us the cybersecurity partner of choice.At Palo Alto Networks, were committed to bringing together the very best people in serviceof our mission, so were also proud to be the cybersecurity workplace of choice, recognizedamong Newsweeks Most Loved Workplaces (2021\), Comparablys Best Companies forDiversity (2021\), and HRCs Best Places for LGBTQ Equality (2022\). For more information,visit www.paloaltonetworks.com.About Unit 42Palo Alto Networks Unit 42 brings together world\-renowned threat researchers, elite incidentresponders and expert security consultants to create an intelligence\-driven, response\-readyorganization thats passionate about helping you proactively manage cyber risk. Together,our team serves as your trusted advisor to help assess and test your security controls againstthe right threats, transform your security strategy with a threat\-informed approach, and respondto incidents in record time so that you get back to business faster.Visit paloaltonetworks.comunit42\.3000 Tannery WaySanta Clara, CA 95054Main\+1\.408\.753\.4000Sales\+1\.866\.320\.4788Support\+1\.866\.898\.9087 2023 Palo Alto Networks, Inc. Palo Alto Networks is a registeredtrademark of Palo Alto Networks. A list of our trademarks can befound at www.paloaltonetworks.comcompanytrademarks.html.All other marks mentioned herein may be trademarks of theirrespective companies. 2023 Unit 42 Ransomware and Extortionwww.paloaltonetworks.comReport 032023\.