2023 
QUALYS 
TRURISK 
RESEARCH 
REPORTOn the State of Vulnerabilities, Top Exploits, andFive Risk Facts Learned by Threat Analytics forImproving Security Posture from 2022 DataF
OELBA
TS
TNETNO
C3Foreword4Introduction6State of Vulnerabilities8Top Exploits in 20228CVE\-2022\-30190 Follina9CVE\-2022\-26134 Atlassian Confluence Remote Code Execution Vulnerability9CVE\-2022\-22954 VMware Workspace ONE Server\-Side Template Injection Vulnerability9CVE\-2022\-1040 Sophos Firewall Authentication Bypass10CVE\-2022\-24521 Windows CLFS Driver Privilege Escalation Vulnerability11Five Risk Facts Learned from Threat Analytics in 202212Risk Fact 1: Speed Is the Key to Out\-Maneuvering Adversaries16Risk Fact 2: Automation is the Difference Between Success and Failure18Risk Fact 3: Initial Access Brokers Attack What Organizations Ignore21Risk Fact 4: Misconfigurations Still Prevalent in Web Applications24Risk Fact 5: Infrastructure Misconfigurations Open the Door to Ransomware26On\-Premises Misconfigurations27Linking Misconfigurations to Ransomware28Ransomware\-Specific Misconfigurations30Recommendations32Qualys Products33About Qualys Threat Research Unit (TRU)34About Qualys35Contributors to the 2023 Qualys TruRisk Research Report36Appendix A: CVE Listing 2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT2D
ROWERO
FThe explosion of digital transformation in every business today is inevitable. Companies are 
increasingly competing by enhancing their customers digital experience. Similarly, global 
government organizations are significantly accelerating digital programs enabling citizens 
with e\-governance, biometric identities and cardless payments to overcome financial 
exclusion. This has led to staggering amounts of software being developed in the last few 
years and a surge in software vulnerabilities with many more to come. Combine this with 
the shortage of skilled cybersecurity professionals, and CISOs and security teams are left 
with the daunting challenge of keeping up with the sheer volume of information coming at 
them. CISOs and security teams must continuously work to keep up with the fast pace of 
technological advancement and evolving cyber threats to reach their goal of reducing their 
organizations risk.Todays cybersecurity tools, which solely focus on generating more and more detections 
and alerts are not enough to help secure organizations. Organizations require assistance in 
prioritizing the most severe vulnerabilities present in their critical assets and resolving them 
before attackers exploit them. Additionally, they need a risk\-based approach to quantify and 
align cyber risk to their business and communicate effectively with their executives and boards.Qualys passion and vision for helping companies minimize cyber risks has driven us to 
innovate by launching VMDR with TruRisk and patch management on our platform. Over 
the past 20\+ years, we have operated a vast cloud platform that conducted 6\+ billion scans, 
managed 90\+ million agents, and deployed 45\+ million patches in 2022 alone. This large 
pool of anonymized, real\-time data allows us the opportunity to provide insights that assist 
organizations in enhancing their security programs.Our research team took a deep dive into our platform and its 13\+ trillion anonymized data 
points to determine which vulnerabilities cause the highest risk to organizations. This data, 
overlayed with threat intelligence and original research conducted by The Qualys Threat 
Research Unit (TRU), exposes the intricacies of threat actor activities and operations. With 
vulnerability management, patching and endpoint detection and response (EDR) on a 
single platform, our TRU researchers get valuable insights into how threat actors behave 
pre and post\-exploitation.Defining risk is more important than ever in setting a cybersecurity strategy. Todays 
security teams must think holistically about attack paths, examine threat actor behaviors 
to understand what could wreak the most havoc, and quickly control threat activity when a 
breach occurs.We encourage everyone from practitioners to CISOs to leverage the data and insights 
in this report to support their security initiatives and help facilitate more profound 
conversations with executives and board members that will enhance security posture. The 
report offers a reliable resource for security practitioners seeking data\-driven, real\-world, 
and actionable perspectives on vulnerabilities and trends critical to organizations across all 
industries and sizes. We hope that these insights will assist your teams in overcoming those 
seeking to harm your digital infrastructure.Sumedh Thakar 
President and CEO, QualysFOREWARD\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT3IN
OTCUDORT
NIMany cybersecurity companies today focus solely on detection, which is a large part of theoverall equation. But detection alone is not enough to reduce and eliminate risks within yourenvironment. Stakeholders must also discover and remediate the risks that threatena company or forever play a game of catch\-up with threat actors.You can brush your teeth and floss every day, or you can risk cavities, or worse, and hopea dentist can fix larger problems later. Using detection tools alone provides a diagnostic,confirming a cavity but still requires the painful path of extracting the infection. Awise approach is to focus first on finding flaws and reducing risk. This strategy requiresunderstanding how vulnerabilities and misconfigurations are commonly leveraged and howto reduce the mean time to remediation (MTTR). Which do you prefer: brushing your teeth orbeing numbed by Novocain?No matter the difference in size, geography or industry, a CISOs number one job is tomanage cyber risk. Qualys helps organizations understand their risk exposure by providingcomprehensive information on their unique environments and associated risks which, leftunattended, could upend their operations. Adversaries make it their business to understandthe vulnerabilities and weaknesses within their victims environments, which can shift thebalance of power and control in their favor, enabling cybercriminals to exploit vulnerabilitiesthat organizations may not be aware of. In this report, the Qualys Threat Research Unit (TRU)investigates the primary techniques explored by adversaries to exploit vulnerabilities,compromise systems and infiltrate organizations.TRU works to secure and defend the digital world from threat actors who seed chaos anderode trust in business operations. From building vulnerability signatures, to writing detectionrules, researching and finding zero\-day threats, finding and reversing custom malware,reducing attack surface exposure and other advanced threat research activities TRU worksday and night to protect our customers cyber assets.I hope this report offers you the same opportunity and direction that it offers me: to increaseawareness of what attackers are adding to their Swiss Army knife of tools so you can createswift countermeasures. Above all, I want to inspire defenders by showing that their work doesmake a difference!Travis SmithVice President, Threat Research Unit, QualysINTRODUCTION\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT4Key FindingsIn 2022, Qualys detected more than 2\.3 billion vulnerabilities around the globe. By mininganonymous detection statistics from our global platform, TRU discovered unique insights intothe vulnerabilities found on many devices, security of web applications, misconfiguration of on\-premises devices, and cloud security posture. These data points reveal Risk Facts that universallyapply across industries and organizations:1\.Speed is the key to out\-maneuvering adversaries2\.Automation is the difference between success and failure3\.Initial Access Brokers (IABs) attack what organizations ignore4\.Misconfigurations still prevalent in web applications5\.Infrastructure misconfigurations open the door to ransomwareMethodology1\.This report focuses on 163 unique Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) announcedin 2022, capable of introducing the highest level of risk to organizations across industriesand all sizes.2\.Anonymous detection statistics for the 163 CVEs were analyzed to establish their impact onenterprise security and the potential for breaches.3\.Anonymous Web Application Security (WAS) data was examined, and detections weremapped to the OWASP Top 10 application security risks.4\.Anonymous detections from Policy Compliance (PC) scans related to endpoint scans usingCenter for Internet Security (CIS), Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) SecurityTechnical Information Guides (STIGs), and Qualys Ransomware Protection policies to analyzecommonly failing controls.5\.Discovery of the most common failing controls was enabled by analysis of anonymous scandetections from CIS Hardening Benchmarks for Amazon Web Services (AWS), MicrosoftAzure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).Active Scanners 6\+BillionIP ScansAudits a Year Physical Virtual Passive50\+ThousandScanner appliances CloudContainer APIScaling Security with Diverse Sensors, Scanners and AgentCloud Agents84Million2\+TrillionCloud Agents across servers, 
endpoints, clouds \& containersSecurity Events 
collected in real time Cloud AgentsFigure 1: Qualys Platform Deploying AnywhereINTRODUCTION\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT5F
OETAT
SS The total number of reported vulnerabilities has exploded in recent years. The 1990s clocked 
Ewere discovered. A cumulative growth rate in vulnerabilities of 5,116% over this period seemsstartling. The trend continued during 2022 when more than 25,000 vulnerabilities received2,594 vulnerabilities in total, which rose 796% to 37,231 in the 2000s; since 2010 another 135,284ITI
L
IB
ARENLU
Va unique CVE.Given the wide assortment of classifications and Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS)scores, not all 25,000 are created equal. Some are more dangerous than others based on theirmalicious usage by threat actors or patch difficulty and many are still unprioritized.100%34\.3%2\.3%0\.54%0\.45%0\.29%0\.22%0\.12%1988 2022192,036
All Known 
Vulnerabilities65,920
Vulnerabilities 
With Exploits 
Available4,492
Vulnerabilities 
With 
Weaponized 
Exploit Code1,043
Exploited by 
Malware868
CISA Known 
Exploited 
Vulnerabilities575
Named 
Vulnerabilities 
(Log4Shell, 
Heartbleed)440
Exploited by 
Threat Actors236
Exploited by 
RansomwareFigure 2: Evolution of vulnerability threat landscape, 1988 2022Within the universe of more than 192,000 known vulnerabilities, only a subset of those introducethe most risk to the organization. While the absolute number of vulnerabilities causing risk mightbe small, it is a dynamically evolving subset with older vulnerabilities getting new exploits regularly.This makes it important to continuously monitor threat intelligence and focusing on vulnerabilitiesthat cause risk at any given point of time. By assessing cyber risk in terms of business risk,individual organizations can put these astronomical numbers into perspective. This reportdescribes which are the most dangerous, categorizing them into one or more of the following:Exploit AvailableA weaponized exploit available publiclyThreat ActorExploited by and associated with a named threat actorMalwareOne or more pieces of malware known to exploit the vulnerabilityRansomwareRansomware known to exploit the vulnerabilityCISA KEVWas added to the U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security 
Agency (CISA) Known Exploited Vulnerabilities (KEV) CatalogNamed VulnerabilityName was given to the vulnerability by security industry or mediaSTATE OF VULNERABILITIES\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT6100%30%0\.6%0\.36%0\.28%0\.11%0\.09%0\.07%202225,228
All Known 
Vulnerabilities7,786
Vulnerabilities 
With Exploits 
Available159
Vulnerabilities 
With 
Weaponized 
Exploit Code93
Exploited by 
Malware73
CISA Known 
Exploited 
Vulnerabilities28
Named 
Vulnerabilities 
(Log4Shell, 
Heartbleed)23
Exploited by 
Threat Actors18
Exploited by 
RansomwareFigure 3: Evolution of vulnerability threat landscape in 2022During 2022, the proportion of weaponized vulnerabilities among all published vulnerabilitiesdecreased. Nonetheless, numerous vulnerabilities from previous years were utilized for the firsttime by threat actors or malware, resulting in weaponization. Throughout the year, a total of539 such vulnerabilities from previous years were exploited in some capacity. Of the 539 newlyweaponized vulnerabilities, 118 were older than three years and were as old as CVE\-2004\-0210which was published in August 2004\.CI SA K EVWE APO NIZE DTHRE AT ACTORRA NSOMWAREVulnerability Count4532376250Figure 4: Vulnerabilities published prior to 2022 which are now being exploited in 2022What this shows is that threat actors are not only adopting new vulnerabilities which are newand novel, they are also looking at exploiting vulnerabilities which remain unpatched within theorganizations they encounter. This highlights that organizations need to take into account thethreat landscape to fully understand how to prioritize vulnerabilities to address in their environments.STATE OF VULNERABILITIES\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT72
2
0
2
NIIS
TOLPX
EP
O
TThe criteria to define which vulnerabilities were the most exploited during calendar year 2022 wassimple: those which wreaked the most havoc. These vulnerabilities fall under the six categoriesmentioned above, which are presented in Table 1 and followed by individual descriptions.CVEQVSCI SA K EVTHRE AT 
ACTOR 
(CO UNT)RANSOM \- 
WAREMALWARE 
(CO UNT)MTTR 
(DAYS)PATCH
RAT ECVE\-2022\-
30190CVE\-2022\-
26134CVE\-2022\-
22954CVE\-2022\-
1040CVE\-2022\-
2452110010010010095YYYYY41132YYYYY6421428\.491\.21%28\.558\.30%14\.387\.38%70\.034\.70%20\.690\.00%Table 1: Top Exploited Vulnerabilities in 2022CVE\-2022\-30190
FollinaThis vulnerability poses a significant threat to organizations because an attacker can executearbitrary code via various applications such as Microsoft Word. The exploit leverages the built\-in Microsoft URL handlers to trigger the msdt.exe process, which can then be used to runPowerShell commands. This allows Remote Code Execution (RCE), which can provide the abilityto install programs, accessmodify data, or create new user accounts.This vulnerability has been leveraged by at least 4 named threat actors and multiple malwarefamilies. The notorious Fancy Bear and Wizard Spider groups are known to exploit this CVE, asare the lesser known Luckycat and UAC\-0098 groups. Some of the more well\-known ransomwarefamilies to leverage this vulnerability are Qakbot, Skeeyah, and Black Basta. While the U.S.National Institute of Standards and Technologys National Vulnerability Database (NVD)published the Follina CVE on June 1, 2022, and was known to be weaponized in less than a day,CISA did not add it to the KEV Catalog until 13 days following its disclosure on that monthsMicrosoft Patch Tuesday. During 2022, this CVE was detected 12\.8 million times around the worldand patched on average in 28\.1 days, reaching an effective patch rate of 91\.21%.STATE OF VULNERABILITIES\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT8CVE\-2022\-26134
Atlassian Confluence Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityThis critical severity vulnerability allows unauthenticated remote code execution. As an Object\-Graph Navigation Language (OGNL) injection vulnerability, it allows an unauthenticated attackerto execute arbitrary code on a Confluence Server or Data Center instance. The CVE can beexploited by sending a specially crafted Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request containingan OGNL expression in the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) to the target server, which results inremote code execution. This CVE was an active vulnerability in all Confluence Servers and DataCenter versions prior to distribution of a patched version.This vulnerability was exploited by the Sparkling Goblin threat actors group, while also knownto be leveraged by two ransomware families particularly the Cerber and AvosLocker variants.While this CVE was detected only about 3,000 times, it poses significant risk due to theinformation it stores, its exposure to the internet, and its ease of exploitation. This vulnerabilitywas added to the CISA KEV before being published by the NVD. This vulnerability is the secondslowest (behind the Sophos Firewall Authentication Bypass \[CVE\-2022\-1040] vulnerability) forremediations, being patched in 28\.5 days with a 58\.3% patch efficacy.CVE\-2022\-22954
VMware Workspace ONE Server\-Side Template Injection VulnerabilityThis CVE is a remote code execution vulnerability arising from a server\-side template injection inthe VMware Workspace ONE Access and Identity Manager. The vulnerability can be easily exploitedwith a specially crafted HTTP request and poses a significant risk because anyone with networkaccess to a vulnerable instance can initiate this exploit to execute arbitrary code on the system.Multiple vulnerabilities were discovered in VMware Workspace ONE in 2022 five wereweaponized and two were added to the CISA KEV list, yet only one was leveraged by threatactors and ransomware groups. This vulnerability was weaponized in less than a day and addedto the CISA KEV list within just three days following its disclosure. Only the Rocket Kitten group isknown to be exploiting this vulnerability in the wild. However multiple malware and ransomwarefamilies do leverage this, particularly the RAR1Ransom and Clop families. Patching has been fasterfor this vulnerability, within 14\.3 days for an 87\.3% patch efficacy.CVE\-2022\-1040
Sophos Firewall Authentication BypassCVE\-2022\-1040 is an authentication bypass vulnerability in the user portal and web admin of theSophos Firewall running version v18\.4 MR3 or older. Successful exploitation allows an attacker tobypass authentication and gain unauthorized access to the firewall to execute arbitrary code.This vulnerability is leveraged by two threat actors, LuckyCat and DriftingCloud, and is leveragedby the Ragnarok ransomware family. Considering the target is a firewall device allowing directconnection to the internet, this CVE poses a serious issue that requires urgent remediation. Itwas added to CISA KEV six days after its publication to the NVD. Qualys found more than 6,000vulnerable instances resolved on average in 70 days with a 34\.7% patch efficacy.STATE OF VULNERABILITIES\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT9CVE\-2022\-24521
Windows CLFS Driver Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityThis CVE affects the Windows Common Log File System (CLFS) driver for Microsoft Windows.Successful exploitation allows for privilege escalation and is likely to be used in tandem withadditional exploit techniques for gaining code execution abilities. It results in an Elevation ofPrivilege (EoP) in the Windows Common Log File System (CLFS) driver. Vulnerabilities likethis CVE are typically leveraged after an attacker has already gained access to the vulnerablesystem. The attacker will then use the EoP vulnerability to gain higher permissions such asadministrator\-level access. CVE\-2022\-24521 was reported to Microsoft by the National SecurityAgency (NSA). It was detected in more than 14 million instances and added to the CISA KEVtwo days before NVD published the CVE. Two threat actors, UNC2596 and Vice Society, havebeen known to leverage this vulnerability. Other exploits were by four malware families, includingfour ransomware families: N13VRedAlert, Cuba, and Yunluowang. Organizations patched thisvulnerability within 20\.6 days at a 90% patch efficacy during 2022\.STATE OF VULNERABILITIES\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT10FIVE
RISK FACTS 
LEARNED 
FROM THREAT 
ANALYTICS
IN 2022111T
CAFKS
RI1SPEED IS THE KEY
TO OUT\-MANEUVERING 
ADVERSARIESThe doubling of disclosed vulnerabilities over the last five years, the speed at which vulnerabilitiesare weaponized, and the cyber talent shortage have left teams struggling to wade through amountain of vulnerabilities with no way to fix them all. Security teams need a systematic approachto cut through the noise and prioritize fixing the most critical vulnerabilities that will reduce riskand enable them to keep up with threat actors.On average, weaponized vulnerabilities are patched within 30\.6 days while only being patchedan average of 57\.7% of the time. These same vulnerabilities are weaponized by attackers in 19\.5days on average. This means that attackers have 11\.1 days of exploitation opportunities beforeorganizations begin patching. Arguably the remediation activity accelerates after weaponizationhappens. Hence, it is very important to predict which vulnerabilities could be weaponized andpatch them as early as possible so an emergency drill can be avoided.A defenders mean time to remediation (MTTR) shows a slight change in how organizationsrespond to urgent threats. Vulnerabilities known to be leveraged by named threat actors wereremediated eight days faster than those without association to known threat actors. But whiledefenders are quick to address these, attackers are also quick to weaponize. Threat actorswere faster to leverage vulnerabilities that are known to be exploited or were cataloged onCISAs Known Exploited Vulnerabilities list when compared to those leveraged by malwareand ransomware.Weaponized VulnsExploitation
Opportunities19\.5 DaysTime to Weaponize11\.1 Days30\.6 DaysMean Time 
to Remediate57\.7% Remediated 
Vulnerabilities403020100
DaysCISTAKEVhreatARansomwMalwarearectorsMean Time to RemediationTime to WeaponizeFigure 5: Time to Weaponize vs. MTTR for Vulnerabilities in 2022RISK FACT 1: SPEED IS THE KEY TO OUT\-MANEUVERING ADVERSARIES\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT12Attribution of a vulnerability to a named threat actor is a time\-consuming and extremely difficultprocess. On average, attribution happens 95 days (about three months) after a vulnerability ispublished and 74\.3 days (about two and a half months) after the CVE is patched. Data suggeststhat when a vulnerability is associated with a named threat actor, it does not necessarily leadto faster patching due to various factors. Organizations often need more resources for theircybersecurity teams, which means they prioritize patching based on criticality and activeexploitation, not necessarily on threat actor association. Patch management can be complex,involving compatibility testing, scheduling downtime, and coordinating with multiple teams,causing delays in patch deployment. Accurate attribution of a cyberattack to a specific threatactor is complex, and uncertainty in attribution can affect patch prioritization. Additionally,organizations might underestimate the risk associated with a vulnerability if they believe thenamed threat actor is not targeting their industry or region, which may result in slower patchdeployment. Finally, patches for specific vulnerabilities may not be immediately available fromthe vendor, causing delays in patching even when organizations are aware of the risk.The analysis found that Microsoft Windows and Google Chrome represented every spot in thetop 10 most detected CVEs in 2022, as shown in Table 2\. This makes sense since Windows andChrome are at the top in terms of market share for operating systems and browsers, respectively.CVETITLEDE TECTIONS 
(MIL LIO N)MTT R
(DAYS)CVE\-2022\-2856Google Chrome Intents Insufficient Input 
Validation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41049Microsoft Windows Mark of the Web (MOTW) 
Security Feature Bypass VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-4135Google Chromium Heap Buffer Overflow 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-2294WebRTC Heap Buffer Overflow VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-3075Google Chromium Insufficient Data Validation 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-30170Windows Credential Roaming Service Elevation of 
Privilege Vulnerability22\.417\.117\.016\.516\.115\.411\.510\.32\.0313\.89\.813\.2CVE\-2022\-24521Microsoft Windows Common Log File System 
CLFS Driver Privilege Escalation Vulnerability14\.020\.5CVE\-2022\-26904Microsoft Windows User Profile Service Privilege 
Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-37969Microsoft Windows CLFS Driver Privilege 
Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-1096Google Chromium V8 Type Confusion 
Vulnerability13\.913\.713\.310\.810\.821\.0Table 2: Top 10 Vulnerabilities in 2022 Affecting Windows or ChromeRISK FACT 1: SPEED IS THE KEY TO OUT\-MANEUVERING ADVERSARIES\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT13Visualizing the vulnerability data in scatter charts shows the full story. Figure 6 comparesthe age (X\-axis) of a vulnerability to the percentage remediated (Y\-axis) a vivid picture ofhow organizations tackle these issues. The speed of remediation in Figure 6 varied wildlyacross all vulnerabilities.Days Since Vulnerability Publicatione
t
a
R
h
c
t
a
PFigure 6: Comparing Weaponized Vulnerabilities in 2022 by Age vs. Percentage RemediatedFiltering the scatter chart to represent the top detections Windows and Chrome shows adefinitive trendline of how organizations prioritize patching for the quickest result. As shownin Figure 7, results leveled out around a 90% patch rate, which suggests that the patches aredeployed to approximately 90% of the organizations infrastructure before the next wave ofmonthly patching begins.Days Since Vulnerability Publicatione
t
a
R
h
c
t
a
PFigure 7: Comparing Weaponized ChromeWindows Vulnerabilities
in 2022 by Age vs. Percentage RemediatedRISK FACT 1: SPEED IS THE KEY TO OUT\-MANEUVERING ADVERSARIES\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT14100%80%60%40%20%0%50100150200250300350100%80%60%40%20%0%50100150200250300350The higher patch rate for weaponized ChromeWindows vulnerabilities stems from tworeasons. First, the number of critical vulnerabilities these two products receive are significantlyhigher than others, and organizations are quick to prioritize critical vulnerabilities that havethe potential to pose the most risk. Second, both Windows and Chrome patches are easilyautomated critical for allowing defenders the opportunity to catch up to the speed at whichthreat actors operate.However, removing Windows and Chrome shows a much different story (Fig. 8\) with no clearpatterns in remediation prioritization for the remaining vulnerabilities. The extreme variations canbe attributed to factors such as an inability to automate patching (representative of patchingniche software, which is often more difficult), or security teams deciding that patching thevulnerability is of little importance unless it is moved to CISAs KEV list.Days Since Vulnerability Publicatione
t
a
R
h
c
t
a
PFigure 8: Comparing Weaponized Non\-ChromeWindows Vulnerabilities in 2022 
by Age vs. Percentage RemediatedRISK FACT 1: SPEED IS THE KEY TO OUT\-MANEUVERING ADVERSARIES\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT15100%80%60%40%20%0%50100150200250300350 
2T
CA
FK
SIR2AUTOMATION IS THE 
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN 
SUCCESS AND FAILUREAutomation across security infrastructure has become a necessity for every cyber arsenal. Itallows organizations to eliminate manual and tedious tasks, which ultimately reduces the timeand effort it takes to remediate vulnerabilities and frees up security staff to address morepressing concerns. Qualys Patch Management customers deployed more than 45 millionpatches, highlighting the shift in organizations migrating to more automated means to combatthreat actors.Most weaponized vulnerabilities discussed in the body of this study were in Chrome or Windows,due to the high prevalence of that browser and operating system. The mean time to remediationfor these products globally is 17\.4 days (about 2 and a half weeks) with an effective patch rate of82\.9%. Windows and Chrome are patched twice as fast and twice as often as other applications.Time to RemediationPatch RatePatched Twice as FastPatched Twice as Often30\.6
Days17\.4
Days403020100Days82\.9%42\.3%80%60%40%20%0%Windows 
\+ ChromeAllWindows 
\+ ChromeAllFigure 9: MTTR vs. Patch Rate for Chrome in Windows Vulnerabilities in 2022RISK FACT 2: AUTOMATION IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN SUCCESS AND FAILURE\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT16403020100 
DaysTime to RemediationPatch Rate80%60%40%20%0%WeaNamCAISAPTWeaNamCAISAPTpeodnizedVulnsKEVpeodnizedVulnsKEVNon\-Windows \+ChromeWindows \+ ChromeFigure 10: MTTR vs. Patch Rate for Chrome in Windows Vulnerabilities in 2022Chrome and Windows comprise one\-third of the weaponized vulnerabilities dataset, with 75%of these leveraged by named threat actors. Knowing these are prime risk vectors, organizationstypically patch them first and most thoroughly.The study reveals patches that are known to have the opportunity to be deployed automaticallywere deployed 45% more often and 36% faster than those of a manual nature. Vulnerabilitiesthat were automatable with a patch management solution have a mean time to remediation of25\.5 days; where manually patched vulnerabilities were remediated in 39\.8 days. The patch ratefor the automatable set was 72\.5% compared to 49\.8% for those in the manual set. The extremevariations can be attributed to factors such as an inability to automate patching.Time to RemediationPatch Rate32\.6% Improvement54\.6% Improvement39\.8
Days25\.5
Days403020100Days100%80%60%40%20%0%72\.5%49\.8%AutomatedManualAutomatedManualAutomated Patching Is KeyFigure 11: Automated Patching Improves MTTR for Vulnerabilities in 2022RISK FACT 2: AUTOMATION IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN SUCCESS AND FAILURE\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT173T
CA
FK
SIR3INITIAL ACCESS
BROKERS ATTACK WHAT 
ORGANIZATIONS IGNOREA growing trend in the threat actor landscape is a category called Initial Access Brokers (IABs),sometimes called affiliates. TRU research shows the initial access point for IABs will follow oneof multiple paths. In Figure 12, the top lane is where IABs seek to exploit the perimeter devices oftheir intended target, such as firewalls and web applications. IABs seek misconfigurations such asdefault passwords or exposed services to find a way in or exploit vulnerabilities for unpatchedsystems. Another path is leveraging valid credentials and gaining direct access to the environment.IABs will either attempt to steal the credentials, buy them in the dark web, which were stolenfrom other breaches, or guessbrute force the passwords. By leveraging valid accounts, the threatactor can move around the environment with more stealth than relying on exploitation.Sell or
Leverage
AccessInitial
Access
BrokerExploitMiscongPerimeter
DevicesValid
Credentials
\*Stolen or GuessedPhishing AttackExploitMiscongThird\-
Party
WebsitesHost
MalwareEstablished Access to VictimVictim
OrgActive
DirectoryVictimCrown
JewelsFigure 12: Attack Paths Used by Initial Access Brokers (IABs)Finally, there are phishing attacks. IABs do not always stand up their own infrastructure to deployrequisite tooling. Instead, they breach trusted organizations just as they would attack perimeterdevices of an intended victim. This beachhead allows the IAB attacker to upload malware anddeliver it via phishing to the intended target. Access then allows hunting for valuable data, suchas access to Active Directory or finding the target companys crown jewels.Acquisition of this information is then sold to another criminal gang or used by the attackerthemselves. The motive is to deliver and profit from ransomware. During 2022, there were 17 newCVEs added to the IAB toolkit (see Table 3\).RISK FACT 3: INITIAL ACCESS BROKERS ATTACK WHAT ORGANIZATIONS IGNORE\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT18CVETITLECVE\-2022\-22954VMware Workspace ONE Access and Identity Manager Server\-Side Template 
Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22963VMware Tanzu Spring Cloud Function Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22965Spring Framework JDK 9\+ Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-24663PHP Everywhere \<\= 2\.0\.3 included functionality that allowed execution of PHP 
Code SnippetsCVE\-2022\-24664PHP Everywhere \<\= 2\.0\.3 included functionality that allowed execution of PHP 
Code SnippetsCVE\-2022\-24665PHP Everywhere \<\= 2\.0\.3 included functionality that allowed execution of PHP 
Code SnippetsCVE\-2022\-26134Atlassian Confluence Server and Data Center Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26706A sandboxed process may be able to circumvent sandbox restriction in tvOS, iOS, 
iPadOS, watchOS, macOS Big Sur, and macOS MontereyCVE\-2022\-26258D\-Link DIR\-820L Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-28958D\-Link DIR\-816L Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-31625PHP RCE When Using Postgres Database ExtensionCVE\-2022\-31626PHP RCE When Using pdo\_mysql Extension with mysqlnd DriverCVE\-2022\-40684Fortinet Multiple Products Authentication Bypass VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41040Microsoft Exchange Server Server\-Side Request Forgery VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41082Microsoft Exchange Server Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41343registerFont in FontMetrics.php in Dompdf before 2\.0\.1 allows remote file inclusionCVE\-2022\-41352Zimbra Collaboration (ZCS) Arbitrary File Upload VulnerabilityTable 3: New Exploits Using Initial Access Brokers (IABs) During 2022RISK FACT 3: INITIAL ACCESS BROKERS ATTACK WHAT ORGANIZATIONS IGNORE\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT19None of the vulnerabilities in Table 3 are related to Windows or Chrome. Many of these affectperimeter devices or applications encountered when an IAB attacker attempts initial access.Remediation timelines for these CVEs are much worse than for Windows and Chrome. IABvulnerabilities have a mean time to remediation of 45\.5 days, compared to 17\.4 days for Windowsand Chrome. The patch rates are also lower, patched at a rate of 68\.3% compared to 82\.9% forWindows and Chrome.Time to RemediationPatch Rate82\.9%Patched 
14\.6% less68\.3%Extra 28\.1 days 
vulnerable45\.5
Days80%60%40%20%0%50403020100Days17\.4
DaysWindows 
\+ ChromeIABWindows 
\+ ChromeIABFigure 13: Remediation rates of Windows \+ ChromeThis data shows that because organizations are getting quicker at patching Windows andChrome, threat actors especially IABs are forced to leverage vulnerabilities outside of thebig two. The data also suggests that when defenders control the narrative, threat actors areforced to switch their tactics, techniques, and procedures to more challenging attack paths.When this happens, threat actors tend to make more mistakes, create more noise, and generatemore detection opportunities for defenders.RISK FACT 3: INITIAL ACCESS BROKERS ATTACK WHAT ORGANIZATIONS IGNORE\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT20T
CA
FK
SIR4 4MISCONFIGURATIONS 
STILL PREVALENT IN
WEB APPLICATIONSThe Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Top 10 is a list of the most commonand most critical vulnerabilities that can impact a web application. Security experts rely on theOWASP Top 10 when talking about web app security. The list helps developers prioritize andunderstand what to fix to make their applications more secure. Remarkably, while the Top 10svulnerabilities incur minor repositioning from year to year, most have maintained a persistentpresence since the Top 10 was first published in 2003!This study included anonymized detections in 2022 from the Qualys Web Application Scanner,which globally scanned 370,000 web applications and correlated data against the OWASPTop 10\. The scans revealed more than 25 million vulnerabilities, 33% of which were classifiedas OWASP Category A05: Misconfiguration. These misconfiguration vulnerabilities providedmalicious actors with the capability to spread malware in about 24,000 web applications.370,000
Web Applications
Scanned25M
Vulnerabilities
Found33%
Category A05:
MiscongurationFigure 14: OWASP Top Vulnerability Discovered in 2022 by Web Application ScanningRISK FACT 4: MISCONFIGURATIONS STILL PREVALENT IN WEB APPLICATIONS\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT21Detection Count01M2M3M4M5M6M7M8M9MA01Access ControlA02CryptographyA03InjectionA04Insecure DesignA05MiscongurationA06Vulnerable ComponentsA07Authentication FailureA08Integrity FailureA09Logging \& MonitoringA10Server\-Side Request ForgeryExternalInternalFigure 15: OWASP Top 10 Vulnerabilities Discovered in 2022 by Web Application ScanningMisconfigurations largely entail improper controls used to protect web applications. Oftentimesthis occurs when security best practices are not followed, such as not changing defaultpermissions or passwords. Another type of misconfiguration can be applications that sharetoo much information, such as detailed stack traces for errors. By not following securitybest practices, these web applications are vulnerable to a variety of attacks. For example,sophisticated attackers may use information disclosed in a verbose stack trace to identifyweb application technologies and mount a more advanced attack to breach a site. Even asimple error, such as not disabling directory listings, can trigger long\-term issues if personallyidentifiable information (PII) is inadvertently exposed through misconfigurations.The other top\-detected categories are A02: Cryptographic Failures, A01: Broken Access Control,and A03: Injection. Cryptographic Failures can expose sensitive data by weak cryptographiccontrols (or worse, no cryptography). Misconfigurations enabling these attacks can cause sessionhijacking, stolen user credentials, and attacks against other data at rest or in transit.Broken Access Control errors leverage violations of permission rights to gain access to webapplications or resources. Examples include forced browsing to pages behind authenticationor unauthorized privilege escalation for authenticated users. In some cases, access controlis completely missing, such as the Optus data breach, where malicious actors discovered anunprotected API endpoint that allowed access to over 10 million customer records.RISK FACT 4: MISCONFIGURATIONS STILL PREVALENT IN WEB APPLICATIONS\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT22Finally, the injection category is the culprit of many common web application attacks, suchas SQL and command injection attacks, Cross\-Site Scripting (XSS), and Cross\-Site RequestForgeries (CSRF). Many of these attack techniques have existed since the first web applicationsswitched to dynamic content in the late 1990s. While the mechanics of these attacks are stillevolving, the bedrock error of improper or unsanitized user input has plagued web applicationsecurity for decades.QUALYS I DTITLE208001206011207003208000208002206012A Link to a Malicious Page was FoundA Malicious File Write was DetectedA Match to a Known Virus was DetectedContent was Loaded from a Remote Malicious PageYour Web Site Domain is BlacklistedA Malicious Process Launch Was DetectedTable 4: Threat Detections Discovered in 2022 by Web Application ScanningOnce exploited, web applications themselves can become tools of malicious actors via webmalware. A survey of Qualys Web Malware Detection scans identified nearly 65,000 instances ofmalware in the dataset of 200,000 external\-facing web applications used by Qualys customers.For these, adversaries inserted custom source code to infect client browsers with the goal ofskimming payment card information, stealing credentials, mining cryptocurrency, sending usersto blacklisted sites, and other nefarious actions. These attacks brought reputational damage anddownstream implications to the organization and website visitors.RISK FACT 4: MISCONFIGURATIONS STILL PREVALENT IN WEB APPLICATIONS\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT235T
CA
FK
SIR5 INFRASTRUCTUREMISCONFIGURATIONS 
OPEN THE DOOR
TO RANSOMWAREMisconfigurations errors that are unintended actions by an internal party make up a largepart of weaknesses in web applications and are one of the top reasons for data breaches. This isevidenced by the regular cadence of news around data leakage because of storage buckets ordatabases that were mistakenly left accessible without passwords or encryption.Misconfigurations profoundly affect the security of an organizations cloud infrastructure.Findings for Risk Fact 5 begin with how Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform(GCP), and Microsoft Azure controls are performing against the Center for Internet Security (CIS)benchmarks. These control benchmarks help guide organizations to secure their part of theshared security responsibility model.100%80%60%40%20%0%Conguration
Test Pass RateCloudTCongIAMrailKRMDSSS3VPCBigQueryComputeEngi
neFigure 16: AWS Control Pass Rates in 2022Data exfiltration due to misconfiguration in S3 buckets is a serious concern as it can result inhigh\-profile security breaches. The weak access controls in Amazon S3 cloud storage bucketshave been a major contributor to these incidents. The CIS Benchmark provides several securitycontrols to measure public access to data in S3 buckets. While two of these controls, whichcheck for public access to S3 buckets, perform well with only 1% of buckets being publiclyexposed, there are two preventative controls that are implemented only 50% of the time. Thismeans that there is a high potential for someone to inadvertently make an S3 bucket public.Although protecting the entire bucket is crucial, it is also essential to safeguard the files storedin the bucket from being publicly accessible. Unfortunately, only 40% of organizations arecurrently utilizing preventative controls to prevent files from being accessed publicly. Thisleaves a significant portion of S3 buckets at risk of being misconfigured and exposes sensitivedata to potential breaches. Therefore, it is crucial to educate organizations and individuals onthe importance of proper configuration and security measures for S3 buckets to prevent dataexfiltration and potential security incidents.RISK FACT 5: MISCONFIGURATIONS OPEN THE DOOR TO RANSOMWARE\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT24100%80%60%40%20%0%Conguration
Test Pass RateCoIALoMgmputegi
ngNSetwQLorkStorageEngi
neServ
i
cesVir
tuAAAActivitppalNetyLoServ
i
cwgeorkzurezureASDQLFigure 17: GCP Control Pass Rates in 2022Within GCP, the data shows concerns with BigQuery configurations. The large cloud datasetshoused in BigQuery are often used for AIML model training, which can contain sensitiveinformation that could be exposed like S3s scenario described above. During 2022, 99% of thechecks passed, ensuring that BigQuery datasets are not anonymously or publicly available.Another observation is the failure to utilize customer\-managed keys to encrypt data. On GCP,cloud service provider keys are used for encryption only 1% of the time. Not using customer\-managed keys for encryption can pose a significant risk to the security of your data. While itsbetter to encrypt data using cloud service provider (CSP) keys than not to encrypt it at all, thismethod does not provide significantly stronger protection. If your data is encrypted using CSPkeys and any of your identities are compromised, threat actors can use those privileges to gainaccess to your encrypted data. However, if you use your own encryption key, it adds an additionallayer of protection. In this case, the threat actor would need access to the encryption key todecrypt the data.From a security perspective, it is highly recommended to use customer\-managed keys for encryption.By doing so, you maintain complete control over the encryption process and can ensure that yourdata remains secure. With customer\-managed keys, you can encrypt your data with your ownunique key, making it much more difficult for unauthorized individuals to access your sensitiveinformation. Therefore, its crucial to prioritize using customer\-managed keys for encryption tominimize the risks of data breaches and ensure the highest level of security for your data.100%80%60%40%20%0%Conguration
Test Pass RateKubMoernetesnitorServ
i
ceMNNySQLetetwworkorkPSQLSecurityStorageVir
tualMServerServerSecurityWatcherGroupCenterAccountach
i
neFigure 18: Azure Control Pass Rates in 2022RISK FACT 5: MISCONFIGURATIONS OPEN THE DOOR TO RANSOMWARE\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT25Similarly with Microsoft Azure, encryption is a group of controls that often fails. The Diskscategory has two checks failing 99% of its scans. These two settings are: Ensure that OS andData disks are encrypted with Customer Managed Key and Ensure that all unattached VMdisks are encrypted. Besides SQL Database Encryption (97\.8% passing) and Web Apps usingthe latest version of TLS (85\.4% passing), encryption checks are failing more than half of thetime across the board.On\-Premises MisconfigurationsSecurity practitioners must also assess risks for on\-premises misconfigurations. Qualys CloudPlatform controls enable the assessment of more than 100,000 potential misconfigurationsthat could weaken cloud security. Urgent attention should be given to the most prevalentmisconfigurations. During 2022, the top 10 failing controls (see Table 5\) were for passwordsettings, user permissions, and protocols for Windows Updates.CONTROL TI TLEPASS RATEEnsure 'Always install with elevated privileges' is set to 'Disabled'Ensure 'User Account Control: Behavior of the elevation prompt for standard users'
is set to 'Automatically deny elevation requests'Ensure 'Select when Quality Updates are received' is set to 'Enabled: 0 days'Ensure 'Configure Automatic Updates: Scheduled install day' is set to '0 \- Every day'Ensure 'Minimum password length' is set to '14 or more character(s)'Ensure 'Access this computer from the network' is set to 'Administrators,
Remote Desktop Users'Ensure 'Configure Automatic Updates' is set to 'Enabled'Ensure 'Deny log on through Remote Desktop Services' to include 'Guests, Local account'Ensure 'Enforce password history' is set to '24 or more password(s)'Ensure 'Maximum password age' is set to '60 or fewer days, but not 0'Table 5: Top 10 Misconfigurations for On\-Premises Infrastructure3\.17%9\.77%10\.50%18\.11%18\.35%21\.20%22\.07%28\.94%36\.55%36\.75%RISK FACT 5: MISCONFIGURATIONS OPEN THE DOOR TO RANSOMWARE\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT26Linking Misconfigurations to RansomwareIn a joint effort between the MITRE Center for Threat Informed Defense and participatingorganizations, security controls were linked to MITRE ATT\&CK Techniques and Mitigations tobetter understand their security coverage against threats outlined in the ATT\&CK knowledgebase. For this study, TRU examined all controls failing more than 50% of their scans and theassociated MITRE ATT\&CK techniques linked to those specific controls.Top Cloud TechniquesTop On\-Premises TechniquesAssociated TechniquesAssociated TechniquesExploitation of 
Remote ServicesData DestructionData from Cloud 
Storage ObjectBrute ForceRemote Desktop 
ProtocolAbuse Elevation 
Control MechanismFigure 19: Typical Misconfigurations Leading to RansomwareFor cloud misconfigurations, the top three techniques associated with failing controls wereT1210: Exploitation of Remote Services, T1485: Data Destruction, and T1530: Data from CloudStorage Object. This indicates misconfigurations in the cloud are exposing organizationsto exploitation, encryption, and exfiltration. These three techniques describe exactly howransomware operates today.Failing on\-premises misconfigurations are associated with T1110: Brute Force, T1021\.001:Remote Desktop Protocol, and T1548: Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism. When combined,these enable an attacker using guessed or stolen passwords to log into an exposed RemoteDesktop Protocol (RDP) machine and elevate their privileges. This is a primary attack vectorfor Initial Access Brokers as an entry point into their intended victims.RISK FACT 5: MISCONFIGURATIONS OPEN THE DOOR TO RANSOMWARE\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT27Ransomware\-Specific MisconfigurationsConfiguration checks to prevent ransomware are useful when using the Qualys Best PracticeControls for Reducing Risk Related to MalwareRansomware policy. During 2022, thesemisconfigurations failed half of their scans with a pass rate of 49\.4%. Surprisingly, nearly a quarterof the tests received a 100% pass rate, which is great news. Failing misconfigurations areassociated with enabling threat actors to move laterally within an organization.The study applied this ransomware policy to a default installation of Windows 10 to compare itto the overall status across the anonymized data analyzed for this report. A default Windows 10installation had a passing rate of 34%, so Qualys users have improved their security posture byan average of 15 percentage points.TRUs evaluation discovered there are five settings securely configured in a default Windows10 installation with a fail rate of more than 50%, meaning many organizations have intentionallymisconfigured these settings. The top two failing controls were settings specific to AttackSurface Reduction, which indicates organizations are likely relying on other security tools to helpprevent phishing\-related attacks. The remaining three are password and RDP settings, whichalign with the overall failure rates of on\-premises controls; these allow passwords to be usedlonger and changed less often while exposing RDP. While a valuable tool for administrators,there is potential for abuse especially if connected directly to the internet.CONTROL TI TLEPASSRATEIM PAC TEnsure 'Configure Attack Surface Reduction rules: Set the state
for each ASR rule' is 'configured'0\.47%Phishing AttacksEnsure 'Configure Attack Surface Reduction rules' is set to 'Enabled'8\.05%Phishing AttacksEnsure 'Maximum password age' is set to '60 or fewer days, but not 0'15\.75%Password StealingEnsure 'Enforce password history' is set to '24 or more password(s)'28\.95%Password StealingEnsure 'Allow users to connect remotely by using Remote Desktop 
Services' is set to 'Disabled'47\.1%Lateral MovementTable 6: Pass Rates for 5 Default Settings in Windows 10 During 2022The good news is there are more settings that organizations are intentionally configuringcorrectly. These include 16 settings that are misconfigured by default settings that organizationsare correctly configuring more than 50% of the time to be more secure. We can see quite a fewconfigurations dealing with passwords, even though a few are intentionally misconfigured. Ata high level, many of these are dealing with brute forcepassword stealing and lateral movement.Controls such as Universal Naming Convention (UNC) paths, Network Access, and WindowsFirewall will reduce the ability of threat actors to laterally move within the environment. Thepassword settings enable protections to prevent a threat actor from successfully achieving bruteforce of passwords by increasing the complexity and having thresholds automatically locking outthe process upon invalid login attempts.RISK FACT 5: MISCONFIGURATIONS OPEN THE DOOR TO RANSOMWARE\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT28CONTROL TI TLEPASSRATEIM PACTEnsure 'Hardened UNC Paths' is set to 'Enabled, with "Require Mutual 
Authentication" and "Require Integrity" set for all NETLOGON shares'51\.47%Lateral MovementEnsure 'Hardened UNC Paths' is set to 'Enabled, with "Require Mutual 
Authentication" and "Require Integrity" set for all SYSVOL shares'51\.95%Lateral MovementEnsure 'Password Settings: Password Age (Days)' is set to
'Enabled: 30 or fewer'52\.61%Password StealingInbound exceptions to the firewall on Windows domain workstations 
must only allow authorized remote management hosts.52\.84%Lateral MovementOutbound exceptions to the firewall on Windows domain workstations 
must only allow authorized remote management hosts.52\.84%Lateral MovementEnsure LAPS AdmPwd GPO Extension CSE is installed54\.35%Password StealingEnsure 'User Account Control: Admin Approval Mode for the Built\-in 
Administrator account' is set to 'Enabled'55\.24%Escalating PrivilegesEnsure 'Minimum password age' is set to '1 or more day(s)'57\.80%Password StealingEnsure 'Microsoft network server: Digitally sign communications
(if client agrees)' is set to 'Enabled'61\.42%Lateral MovementEnsure 'Enable Local Admin Password Management' is set to 'Enabled'61\.61%Password StealingEnsure 'Password must meet complexity requirements' is set to 'Enabled' 67\.09%Password StealingEnsure 'Network access: Do not allow anonymous enumeration of
SAM accounts and shares' is set to 'Enabled'70\.47%Lateral MovementEnsure User Account Control: Switch to the secure desktop when 
prompting for elevation is set to Enabled92\.54%Escalating PrivilegesEnsure 'Reset account lockout counter after' is set to
'15 or more minute(s)'93\.65%Password StealingEnsure 'Account lockout duration' is set to '15 or more minute(s)'94\.23%Password StealingEnsure 'Account lockout threshold' is set to '10 or fewer invalid logon 
attempt(s), but not 0'94\.72%Password StealingTable 7: Pass Rates for 16 Default Settings in Windows 10 that Are Intentionally Configured CorrectlyRISK FACT 5: MISCONFIGURATIONS OPEN THE DOOR TO RANSOMWARE\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT29IS
NOTADNEMMOCE
R30RecommendationsThreat actors remained highly adaptable in 2022, constantly tweaking their tactics, techniquesand procedures to achieve their objectives. As we prepare for 2023 and beyond, defendersmust evolve alongside the changing threat landscape and take action to reduce and managerisk in their environments. With our research yielding five of the most severe Risk Facts faced byorganizations, below are immediate practices that security teams can implement to increase theresilience of their organization:To reduce overall risk, leverage a threat\-informed defensive strategy
to prioritize vulnerability remediations.With the exponential growth in vulnerabilities year over year, it is important to realize that 
only a subset of these introduces the most risk to an organization e.g first and foremost, 
those that are known to be actively exploited in the wild. Vulnerability management must 
move beyond sharing a long list of vulnerabilities to helping prioritize and create remediation 
plans. Risk\-based vulnerability management gives security IT teams a shared asset context 
and the ability to create workflows to quickly align and respond to threats. Incorporating 
threat intelligence sources in your vulnerability management program or platform is crucial to 
stay on top of the latest threats.Rely on automation for patching vulnerabilities wherever possible.By automating patching for software such as Microsoft Windows and Google Chrome, 
platforms and applications will quickly limit the ability for adversaries to exploit known 
vulnerabilities. Automation also allows organizations to focus personnel on manually patching 
the remaining systems in their environment and addressing those critical issues. Further, 
using a risk\-based automation approach that considers intelligence on highly exploitable 
vulnerabilities overlayed with context from your environment reduces overall risk to your 
organization. In other words, patch what is exploitable on valuable systems, not what is 
merely vulnerable, and use automation where risk of breaking systems is lower.Be wary of externally facing systems which are exploited for initial access.Threat actors will persistently seek entry points in perimeter devices, with any exposed 
web application posing an immense level of risk. To mitigate this threat, organizations must 
reduce their unnecessary attack surface e.g the threat from unknown unknowns as 
much as possible, by continuously monitoring their external attack surface, tracking changes 
and receiving notifications when new, unknown assets or critical issues are found and 
keeping systems up to date.Web applications are a prime target for gaining a foothold or staging attacks.Web apps often process or store sensitive information that threat actors would find valuable. 
Even non\-critical systems can serve as a launch pad for an attack or store malicious tools for 
malicious campaigns against secondary victims. Therefore, scanning web applications for 
vulnerabilities and configuration issues is crucial to prevent attackers from exploiting them.Configuration issues introduce the same level of risk as vulnerabilities.A misconfigured system can be abused for various reasons, with many configuration issues 
seen in 2022 related to ransomware. Utilizing Level 1 of CIS Hardening Benchmarks is an
effective starting point to address this threat and improve security posture. Individual controls 
associated with ransomware\-specific techniques such as those mentioned throughout this 
report must be reviewed carefully when found failing in your environment. Additionally, it 
is vital to understand the shared security model for cloud infrastructure. Leveraging the CIS 
Hardening Benchmarks or other best practices to protect cloud workloads will reduce the 
overall risk to your organization.RECOMMENDATIONS\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT31Qualys ProductsStart a free trial to learn more:Vulnerability Management, Detection and Response (VMDR)qualys.comtryvmdrWeb App Scanning (WAS)qualys.comtryweb\-application\-scanningPolicy Compliance (PC)qualys.comtrypolicy\-complianceMulti\-Vector EDRqualys.comtryendpoint\-detection\-responseTotalCloudqualys.comtrytotalcloudPatch Managementqualys.comtrypatch\-managementRECOMMENDATIONS\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT32U
R
TT
UOB
AAbout the Qualys Threat Research Unit (TRU)The Threat Research Unit (TRU) is the research arm of Qualys. The TRUteams focus is devoted to vulnerability, compliance, malware, and threatactor research with the goal of providing world\-class security intelligence,detection data, and guidance for the Qualys Cloud Platform.New technologies are revolutionizing lives and economies around the world. Cyberthreats aregrowing at a similar pace, endangering access to the services that improve lives everywhere. Byempowering customers and stakeholders for IT, security and compliance with TRU research andinsights, together we can secure and defend the digital world from bad actors who create chaosand erode trust. We are the Qualys Threat Research Unit. Our shield is your shield.ABOUT QUALYS THREAT RESEARCH UNIT (TRU)\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT33S
YLAUQTUOB
AAbout QualysQualys, Inc. (NASDAQ: QLYS) is a pioneer and leading provider of disruptive cloud\-based 
security, compliance and IT solutions with more than 10,000 subscription customers worldwide,including a majority of the Forbes Global 100 and Fortune 100\. Qualys helps organizationsstreamline and automate their security and compliance solutions onto a single platform forgreater agility, better business outcomes, and substantial cost savings.The Qualys Cloud Platform leverages a single agent to continuously deliver critical securityintelligence while enabling enterprises to automate the full spectrum of vulnerability detection,compliance, and protection for IT systems, workloads and web applications across on premises,endpoints, servers, public and private clouds, containers, and mobile devices. Founded in 1999as one of the first SaaS security companies, Qualys has strategic partnerships and seamlesslyintegrates its vulnerability management capabilities into security offerings from cloud serviceproviders, including Amazon Web Services, the Google Cloud Platform and Microsoft Azure,along with a number of leading managed service providers and global consulting organizations.For more information, please visit qualys.com.Qualys, Qualys VMDR and the Qualys logo are proprietary trademarks of Qualys, Inc. All otherproducts or names may be trademarks of their respective companies.Learn More: Company Website: qualys.comQualys Security Blog: blog.qualys.comFollow Us:LinkedInTwitterFacebookABOUT QUALYS\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT34S
ROTUBRTNO
CIContributors to the 2023 Qualys TruRisk Research ReportSaeed Abbasi\|Manager, Vulnerability SignaturesIrfan Asrar\|Director, Threat ResearchParag Bajaria\|VP, Cloud and Container Security ServicesDave Buerger\|EditorJohn Delaroderie\|Director, Product Management \- Web Application SecurityMayuresh Dani\|Manager, Threat ResearchJackie Dutton\|Public Relations ManagerChaitanya Haritash\|Malware ResearcherAparna Hinge\|Senior Manager \- Compliance Research AnalysisBharat Jogi\|Director, Vulnerability ResearchEran Livne\|Director, Product Management \- Endpoint RemediationBajrang Mane\|Manager, Malware ResearchGhanshyam More\|Malware ResearcherAubrey Perin\|Lead Threat Intelligence AnalystMehul Revankar\|VP, Product Management \- VMDRSheela Sarva\|Director, Web Application SecurityTravis Smith\|VP, Threat Research UnitAnkur Tyagi\|Principal Engineer, Threat ResearchThereportis provided as is. Except to the extent prohibited by law, or to the extent any statutory rights apply that 
cannot be excluded, limited or waived, we and our affiliates and licensors (a) make no representations or warranties 
of any kind, whether express, implied, statutory or otherwise regarding the content of this report, and (b) disclaim all 
warranties, including any implied or express warranties of merchantability, satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular 
purpose, non\-infringement, or quiet enjoyment.CONTRIBUTORS TO THE 2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT35IA
XDNEPP
A36G
NIT
SI
LE
V
CQUALYSIDTITLECVE\-2021\-4034polkit's pkexec Local Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (PwnKit)CVE\-2022\-0028Palo Alto Networks PAN\-OS Reflected Amplification Denial\-of\-Service 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-0543Debian\-specific Redis Server Lua Sandbox Escape VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-0609Google Chrome Animation Module Use\-After\-Free VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-0824webmin Improper Access Control to Remote Code ExecutionCVE\-2022\-0847Linux Kernel Privilege Escalation Vulnerability in push\_pipe Function (Dirty 
Pipe)CVE\-2022\-0995Linux Kernel Event Notification Subsystem Out\-of\-Bounds Write FlawCVE\-2022\-1040Sophos Firewall User Portal and Webadmin Authentication Bypass 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-1096Google Chromium V8 Type Confusion VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-1329WordPress Elementor Website Builder Plugin Remote Code Execution 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-1364Google Chromium V8 Turbofan Type Confusion VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-1388F5 BIG\-IP Missing Authentication VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-2003AutomationDirect DirectLOGIC Sensitive Information Leakge VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-20699Cisco Small Business RV Series Routers Stack\-based Buffer Overflow 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-20700Cisco Small Business RV Series Routers Stack\-based Buffer Overflow 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-20701Cisco Small Business RV Series Routers Stack\-based Buffer Overflow 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-20703Cisco Small Business RV Series Routers Stack\-based Buffer Overflow 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-20708Cisco Small Business RV Series Routers Stack\-based Buffer Overflow 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-20821Cisco IOS XR Open Port VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-20828Cisco Adaptive Security Appliance (ASA) FirePOWER Arbitrary Command 
Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-2143Advantech iView NetworkServlet Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-21882Microsoft Win32k Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-21919Microsoft Windows User Profile Service Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-21971Microsoft Windows Runtime Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-21999 Windows Print Spooler Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (SpoolFool)CVE\-2022\-22047Microsoft Windows Client Server Runtime Subsystem (CSRSS) Privilege 
Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22536SAP Multiple Products HTTP Request Smuggling VulnerabilityQVS959595957595751009575959565959595959595757595959595959537APPENDIX A: CVE LISTING\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT 
QUALYSIDTITLECVE\-2022\-22587Apple Multiple Products Memory Corruption VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22616Apple Multiple Products Gatekeeper Bypass Incorrect Authorization 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22620Apple Webkit Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22674Apple macOS Out\-of\-Bounds Read VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22675Apple macOS Out\-of\-Bounds Write VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22718 Windows Print Spooler Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (SpoolFool)CVE\-2022\-2294WebRTC Heap Buffer Overflow VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22947VMware Spring Cloud Gateway Code Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22954VMware Workspace ONE Access and Identity Manager Server\-Side 
Template Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22960VMware Multiple Products Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityQVS954095959595959510095CVE\-2022\-22963VMware Tanzu Spring Cloud Function Remote Code Execution Vulnerability95CVE\-2022\-22965Spring Framework JDK 9\+ Remote Code Execution Vulnerability 
(Spring4Shell)CVE\-2022\-22972VMware Multiple Products Authentication Bypass VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-22973VMware Workspace ONE Access and Identity Manager Privilege Escalation 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-23131Zabbix Frontend Authentication Bypass VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-23134Zabbix Frontend Improper Access Control VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-23176 WatchGuard Firebox and XTM Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-23277Microsoft Exchange Server Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-23642Sourcegraph gitserver Service Remote Code Execution Vulnerability10075759595957575CVE\-2022\-23812node\-ipc Malicious peacenotwar Package Import Code Injection Vulnerability95CVE\-2022\-24086Adobe Commerce and Magento Open Source Improper Input Validation 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-24112Apache APISIX Authentication Bypass VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-24521Microsoft Windows CLFS Driver Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-24664PHP Everywhere WordPress metaboxes Code Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-24665PHP Everywhere WordPress gutenberg Code Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-24682Zimbra Webmail Cross\-Site Scripting VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-24706Apache CouchDB Insecure Default Initialization of Resource Vulnerability9596954141959538APPENDIX A: CVE LISTING\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORTQUALYSIDTITLEQVSCVE\-2022\-24734MyBB Admin Control Code Injection Remote Code Execution Vulnerability75CVE\-2022\-24934Kingsoft WPS Office wpsupdater.exe Remote Code Execution Vulnerability95CVE\-2022\-25075TOTOLink A3000RU Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-25076TOTOLink A800R Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-25077TOTOLink A3100R Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-25078TOTOLink A3600R Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-25079TOTOLink A810R Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-25080TOTOLink A830R Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-25081TOTOLink T10 Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-25082TOTOLink A950RG Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-25083TOTOLink A860R Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-25084TOTOLink T6 Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26134Atlassian Confluence Server and Data Center Remote Code Execution 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26138Atlassian Questions For Confluence App Hard\-coded Credentials 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26143MiCollab and MiVoice Business Express TP\-240 Component Access 
Control VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26186TOTOLink N600R Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26210TOTOLink Multiple Firmware Versions Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26258D\-Link DIR\-820L Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26318 WatchGuard Firebox and XTM Appliances Arbitrary Code ExecutionCVE\-2022\-26352dotCMS Unrestricted Upload of File VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26485 Mozilla Firefox Use\-After\-Free VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26486 Mozilla Firefox WebGPU IPC Framework Use\-After\-Free VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26500Veeam Backup \& Replication Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26501Veeam Backup \& Replication Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26504Veeam Backup \& Replication Improper Authentication VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26706Apple Multiple Products Sandbox Bypass VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26871Trend Micro Apex Central Arbitrary File Upload Vulnerability717171717171717171721009495717195951009595959395369539APPENDIX A: CVE LISTING\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORTQUALYSIDTITLECVE\-2022\-26904 Microsoft Windows User Profile Service Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-26923Active Directory Domain Services Elevation of Privilege Vulnerability 
(Certifried)CVE\-2022\-26925 Windows LSA Spoofing Vulnerability (PetitPotam)CVE\-2022\-27226iRZ Mobile Router Cross Site Request Forgery Remote Code Execution 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-27518Citrix Application Delivery Controller (ADC) and Gateway Authentication 
Bypass VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-27593QNAP Photo Station Externally Controlled Reference VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-27666Linux Kernel IPsec ESP Transformation Out\-of\-Bounds Write Privilege 
Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-27924Zimbra Collaboration (ZCS) Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-27925Zimbra Collaboration (ZCS) Arbitrary File Upload VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-28219ManageEngine ADAudit Plus Path Traversal XML Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-28381ALLMediaServer Buffer Overflow VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-2856Google Chrome Intents Insufficient Input Validation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-28810Zoho ManageEngine ADSelfService Plus Remote Code Execution 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-28958D\-Link DIR\-816L Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-29464 WSO2 Multiple Products Unrestrictive Upload of File VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-29499 Mitel MiVoice Connect Data Validation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-29806ZoneMinder Language Settings Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-30170 Windows Credential Roaming Service Elevation of Privilege VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-30190Microsoft Windows Support Diagnostic Tool (MSDT) Remote Code 
Execution Vulnerability (Follina)CVE\-2022\-30333RARLAB UnRAR Directory Traversal VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-30525Zyxel Multiple Firewalls OS Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-30526Zyxel Firewall SUID Binary Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-3075Google Chromium Insufficient Data Validation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-30781Gitea Git Fetch Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-31137Roxy\-WI subprocess\_execute Function Remote Command Execution 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-31199Netwrix Auditor User Activity Video Recording Component Remote Code 
Execution VulnerabilityQVS9595957295937595957575959595100100759510095957595757590CVE\-2022\-31460Meeting Owl Pro and Whiteboard Owl Hard\-Coded Credentials Vulnerability9540APPENDIX A: CVE LISTING\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORTQUALYSIDTITLECVE\-2022\-31625PHP Multiple Versions pg\_query\_params Function Remote Code 
Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-31626PHP Multiple Versions pdo\_mysql Extension Remote Code Execution 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-31660VMware Workspace ONE Access, Identity Manager and vRealize 
Automation Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-31814pfSense pfBlockerNG Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-3218Necta LLC WiFi Mouse Authentication Bypass VulnerabilityQVS4141757575CVE\-2022\-3229Unified Intents Unified Remote Protocol Authentication Bypass Vulnerability75CVE\-2022\-3236Sophos Firewall Code Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-32893Apple iOS and macOS Out\-of\-Bounds Write VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-32894Apple iOS and macOS Out\-of\-Bounds Write VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-32917Apple iOS, iPadOS, and macOS Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-33891Apache Spark Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-34151OMRON Corporation Multiple Products Credentials Leak Vulnerability959595959595CVE\-2022\-34538Digital Watchdog DW MEGApix IP Camera Command Injection Vulnerability35CVE\-2022\-34713Microsoft Windows Support Diagnostic Tool (MSDT) Remote Code 
Execution Vulnerability (DogWalk)CVE\-2022\-34721Windows Internet Key Exchange (IKE) Protocol Extensions Remote Code 
Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-34918Linux Kernel Netfilter nft\_set\_elem\_init Heap Overflow Privilege Escalation 
Vulnerability959575CVE\-2022\-35405Zoho ManageEngine Multiple Products Remote Code Execution Vulnerability95CVE\-2022\-35526 WAVLINK login.cgi Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-3569Zimbra Collaboration Suite (ZCS) sudo Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-35914Teclib GLPI Remote Code Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-36267Airspan AirSpot 5410 Remote Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-36446 Webmin softwareapt\-lib.pl Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-36534Syncovery For Linux Web\-GUI Authenticated Remote Command 
Execution VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-36536Syncovery For Linux post\_applogin.php Component Privilege Escalation 
Vulnerability71759575757575CVE\-2022\-36804Atlassian Bitbucket Server and Data Center Command Injection Vulnerability95CVE\-2022\-37042Zimbra Collaboration (ZCS) Authentication Bypass VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-37061FLIR AX8 Remote Command Injection Vulnerability957541APPENDIX A: CVE LISTING\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORTQUALYSIDTITLECVE\-2022\-3723Google Chromium V8 Type Confusion VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-37393Zimbra's sudo Configuration Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-37706Enlightenment Window Manager enlightenment\_sys Component Privilege 
Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-37969Microsoft Windows Common Log File System (CLFS) Driver Privilege 
Escalation VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-40139Trend Micro Apex One and Apex One as a Service Improper Validation 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-40684Fortinet Multiple Products Authentication Bypass VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41033Microsoft Windows COM\+ Event System Service Privilege Escalation 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41040Microsoft Exchange Server Elevation of Privilege Vulnerability 
(ProxyNotShell)CVE\-2022\-41049Microsoft Windows Mark of the Web (MOTW) Security Feature Bypass 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41073Microsoft Windows Print Spooler Privilege Escalation VulnerabilityQVS95759595959595959595CVE\-2022\-41080Microsoft Exchange Server Privilege Escalation Vulnerability (OWASSRF)100CVE\-2022\-41082Microsoft Exchange Server Remote Code Execution Vulnerability 
(ProxyNotShell)CVE\-2022\-41091 Windows Mark of the Web Security Feature Bypass VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41099BitLocker Security Feature Bypass VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41125Microsoft Windows CNG Key Isolation Service Privilege Escalation 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41128Microsoft Windows Scripting Languages Remote Code Execution 
VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41343Dompdf FontMetrics.php Remote File Inclusion VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-4135Google Chromium Heap Buffer Overflow VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41352Zimbra Collaboration (ZCS) Arbitrary File Upload VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41622BIG\-IP and BIG\-IQ iControl SOAP Cross\-Site Request Forgery VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-41800BIG\-IP iControl REST Endpoint Command Injection VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-42475Fortinet FortiOS Heap\-Based Buffer Overflow VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-4262Google Chromium V8 Type Confusion VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-42827Apple iOS and iPadOS Out\-of\-Bounds Write VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-42856Apple iOS Type Confusion VulnerabilityCVE\-2022\-44698 Microsoft Defender SmartScreen Security Feature Bypass Vulnerability959530959542959575759595959595CVE\-2022\-45045Xiongmai NVR Multiple Devices Arbitrary Command Execution Vulnerability41CVE\-2022\-45359YITH WooCommerce Gift Cards Premium Plugin Arbitrary File Upload 
Vulnerability9542APPENDIX A: CVE LISTING\|2023 QUALYS TRURISK RESEARCH REPORT 2023 QUALYS, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. V230327