May 2024AI and Covert Inuence Operations:
Latest TrendsTable of ContentsIntroductionBuilding Safe, Reliable, and Trustworthy AIA multi\-pronged approach to disrupting threat actorsThreats and Trends in 2024Attacker trendsContent generationMixing old and newFaking engagementProductivity gainsDefender trendsDefensive designAI for defendersDistribution mattersThe importance of sharingThe human elementCase StudiesBad GrammarDoppelgangerSpamouageInternational Union of Virtual Media (IUVM)Zero Zeno3456778899910101111131317232831AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends2IntroductionWe build AI models that improve lives and help solve complex challenges, but we know thatthreat actors will sometimes try to abuse our models to harm others. This includes peoplewho abuse our models in support of covert inuence operations (IO). Battling these threatsrequires joint eorts across many disciplines and organizations. OpenAI is committed to playits part in disrupting IO and threat intelligence sharing.This report surveys campaigns by threat actors that have used our products to further covertIO online. We dene such operations as deceptive attempts to manipulate public opinion orinuence political outcomes without revealing the true identity or intentions of the actorsbehind them. Some of these operations are well known; others we have discovered. While weobserved these threat actors using our models for a range of IO, they all attempted to deceivepeople about who they were or what they were trying to achieve.Our investigations showed that, while the actors behind these operations sought to generatecontent or increase productivity using our models, these campaigns do not appear to havemeaningfully increased their audience engagement or reach as a result of their use ofour services.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends3Building Safe, Reliable, and Trustworthy AIOpenAI is committed to developing safe and broadly benecial AI. Our investigations intosuspected covert IO, some of which we describe in this report, are part of a broader strategyto meet our goal of safe AI deployment.Our Usage Policies prohibit the use of our services to deceive or mislead others. This includesdeceiving people about the authorship or source of content generated using our models, byengaging in activities such as: Creating content that is falsely attributed to nonexistent authors or organizations thatmisrepresent their origins, or impersonates organizations or living real persons withouttheir consent or legal right. Creating automated systems that falsely present as being a real person, or dontdisclose to people that they are interacting with AI (unless its obvious from thecontext).This includes misuse of our services by covert IO, which attempt to manipulate public opinionor inuence political outcomes without revealing the true identity or intentions of the actorsbehind them.When we discover such activity, we ban the accounts involved, share threat indicators withrelevant industry peers, and share insights with our Safety Systems team, our PreparednessFramework process to inform further safety improvements. You can read more about oursafety work on our website.We intend to publish reports of this sort periodically to keep our users and the public informedon what we are seeing. We will review and rene our policies and denitions as we continueto expand our understanding of these actors' behaviors.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends4A multi\-pronged approach to disrupting threat actorsWe take a multi\-pronged approach to combating abuse of our platform. We monitor and disrupt threat actors, including state\-aligned groups andsophisticated, persistent threats. We invest in technology and teams to identify anddisrupt actors like the ones we are discussing here, including leveraging AI tools to helpcombat abuses. We iterate with our Safety Systems team. As we learn from real\-world use andmisuse, we relay information back to our platform teams to iterate and become moresecure. We work together with others in the AI ecosystem, collaborating with industrypartners and other stakeholders to regularly exchange threat information aboutdangerous uses of AI. Finally, we communicate publicly. We highlight potential misuses of AI and sharewhat we have learned about safety with the public.As weve shared before, the vast majority of people use our models to help improve their dailylives. As is the case with many other ecosystems, there are a minority of malicious actors thatrequire sustained attention so that everyone else can continue to enjoy the benets. Althoughwe work to minimize potential misuse by such actors, we will not be able to stop everyinstance. But by continuing to innovate, investigate, collaborate, and share, we make it harderfor threat actors to remain undetected across the digital ecosystem.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends5Threats and Trends in 2024Over the last three months, our work against deceptive and abusive actors has includeddisrupting covert inuence operations that sought to use AI models in support of their activityacross the Internet. These included campaigns linked to operators in Russia (two networks),China, Iran and a commercial company in Israel. The operations were: A previously unreported operation from Russia, which we dubbed Bad Grammar,operating mainly on Telegram and targeting Ukraine, Moldova, the Baltic States and theUnited States; A persistent Russian threat actor posting content about Ukraine across the internet,known as Doppelganger; A persistent Chinese threat actor posting content across the internet to praise Chinaand criticize its critics, known as Spamouage; A persistent Iranian threat actor posting web content that supported Iran and criticizedIsrael and the US, known as the International Union of Virtual Media (IUVM); A commercial company in Israel called STOIC, generating content about the Gazaconict, and to a lesser extent the Histadrut trade unions organization in Israel and theIndian elections. We have nicknamed this operation Zero Zeno for the founder of thestoic school of philosophy, and to reect the low levels of engagement that its variouscampaigns attracted.We have shared threat indicators with peers across the industry. So far, these campaigns donot appear to have meaningfully increased their audience engagement or reach as aresult of their use of our services. Using the Breakout Scale, which assesses the impact ofIO on a scale from 1 (lowest) to 6 (highest), none of the ve operations included in our casestudies scored higher than a 2, indicating activity on multiple platforms, but no breakout toauthentic audiences. (See each case study for details.)AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends6While these campaigns diered widely in their origins, tactics, use of AI, and apparent aims,we identied a number of common trends that illustrate the current state of the IO threat, andthe ways the defender community can use AI and more traditional tools to disrupt them.Overall, these trends reveal a threat landscape marked by evolution, not revolution. Threatactors are using our platform to improve their content and work more eciently. But so far,they are still struggling to reach and engage authentic audiences.Attacker trendsContent generationAll of the actors described in this report used our models to generate content (primarily text,occasionally images such as cartoons). Some appear to have done so to improve the qualityof their output, generating texts with fewer language errors than would have been possible forhuman operators. Others appeared more focused on quantity, generating large volumes ofshort comments that were then posted on third\-party platforms.For example, Bad Grammar and Zero Zeno used our models to generate large quantities ofshort comments that were then posted across Telegram, X, Instagram and other sites. Peopleacting on behalf of IUVM used our models to generate and proofread longer articles in Englishand French. Spamouage and Doppelganger used our models for both quality and quantity,correcting grammatical errors, but also creating dozens of short comments in a range oflanguages.It is important here to distinguish between eort and eect. The increased volume that thesenetworks were able to generate did not show any signs of translating into increasedengagement from authentic audiences.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends7Mixing old and newAll of these operations used AI to some degree, but none used it exclusively. Instead,AI\-generated material was just one of many types of content they posted, alongside moretraditional formats, such as manually written texts, or memes copied from across the internet.For example, we identied Spamouage accounts on X that posted comments generatedusing our models. The same accounts interspersed these comments with content thatappeared to have been written by humans who were not using their native language. Thesenon\-AI posts were made after their posts of AI\-generated content, as well as before.Similarly, Doppelganger posted AI\-generated comments on 9GAG alongside a range ofmemes, some of which were years old and appear to have been copied from across theinternet. This was not a case of giving up on human generation and shifting to AI, but ofmixing the two.Faking engagementSome of the campaigns we disrupted used our models to create the appearance ofengagement across social media \- for example, by generating replies to their own posts tocreate false online engagement, which is against our Usage Policies. This is distinct fromattracting authentic engagement, which none of the networks described here managed to do.For example, Zero Zeno posted short texts on specic themes, especially the Gaza conict,on Instagram and X. These texts were generated using our models. A further set of accountson those platforms would then reply with comments that were also generated by thisoperation (see pages 31\-33\).Similarly, Spamouage posted short comments on X criticizing Chinese dissident Cai Xia.These took the form of an initial post and a series of replies (see illustration on page 25\). EveryAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends8comment in the conversation was articially generated using our models \- likely to createthe false impression that real people had engaged with the operations content.Productivity gainsMany of the threat actors that we identied and disrupted used our models in an attempt toenhance productivity. This included uses that would be banal if they had not been put to theservice of deceptive networks, such as asking for translations and converting double quotesto single quotes in lists.For example, Spamouage used our models to summarize and analyze the sentiment of largenumbers of social media posts, especially Chinese\-language posts. The people acting onbehalf of IUVM used our models to create website tags, which then appear to have beenautomatically added to the groups website. On at least one occasion, the website tagsincluded a message from our model that exposed them as AI\-generated (see illustration, page29\).Defender trendsDefensive designOur models are designed to impose friction on threat actors. We have built them with defensein mind: for example, our latest image generation model, DALL\-E 3, has mitigations to declinerequests that ask for a public gure by name, and weve worked with red teamersdomainexperts who stress\-test our models and servicesto help inform our risk assessment andmitigation eorts in areas like deceptive messaging. We have seen where operators likeDoppelganger tried to generate images of European politicians, only to be refused by themodel.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends9AI for defendersThroughout our investigations, we have built and used our own AI\-powered models to makeour detection and analysis faster and more eective. AI allows analysts to assess largervolumes of data at greater speeds, rene code and queries, and work across many morelanguages eectively.By leveraging our models capabilities to synthesize and analyze the ways threat actors usethose models at scale and in many languages, we have drastically improved the analyticalcapabilities of our investigative teams, reducing some workows from hours or days to a fewminutes. As our models improve, well continue leveraging their capabilities to improve ourinvestigations too.Distribution mattersWeve seen threat actors using our models to generate content that was then publishedacross the internet. But to reach any kind of audience, such content requires a distributionsystem, and it has to compete against all the content produced by real people across socialmedia. In every operation we found, the content they generated failed to build interest amongauthentic audiences.We use the Breakout Scale to assess the ongoing impact of IO. This divides IO into a scalefrom 1 (least impact) to 6 (greatest impact), depending on whether they are amplied by realpeople, quoted uncritically by the media or inuencers, or have an impact on policy orpolitics.Of all the networks described in this report, none rose higher than a Category 2 (multipleplatforms, no breakout to authentic audiences); Bad Grammar stayed at Category 1\. This isnot to say that these operations could not reach the higher categories in the future, especiallyif they are unwittingly amplied by media, inuencers or politicians.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends10The importance of sharingAll the networks described in this report used our models to generate content that was thenposted elsewhere on the internet. We identied these operations activity across Telegram, X,Instagram, Facebook, YouTube, and many smaller forums and websites.To increase the impact of our disruptions on these actors, we are sharing detailed threatindicators with industry peers. We are also publishing domain names associated with thecampaigns we identied, to enable open\-source research.Our own investigations built on years of research by our peers at social media platforms andopen\-source investigators. These included the detailed descriptions of Doppelganger by EUDisinfolab, Meta, and Microsoft; the exposure of Iranian IO by Mandiant and Reuters;investigations into Spamouage by Graphika, the Australian Strategic Policy Institute,Microsoft, Meta and the FBI; and reporting on Zero Zeno by the Atlantic Councils DigitalForensic Research Lab.The human elementAI can change the toolkit that human operators use, but it does not change the operatorsthemselves. Our investigations showed that they were as prone to human error as previousgenerations have been.For example, Bad Grammar posted content that included refusal messages from our model,exposing their content as AI\-generated. IUVM appears to have automated its creation ofwebsite tags, so that they sometimes included messages from our AI models. Doppelgangerposted a comment about Ukraine that was generated using our services as the caption for avideo collage of news footage about the Gaza conict, apparently mixing up its videos (seeillustration, page 18\).AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends11While it is important to be aware of the changing methods that threat actors use, we shouldnot lose sight of the operators very human limitations. These, as well as the broaderbehaviors we identied, are set out in the following case studies.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends12Case StudiesThese case studies describe some of the covert IO weve disrupted in recent months. Eachcase study describes the campaign according to Graphikas widely\-used ABC framework ofactor, behavior and content.Where relevant, the case studies include unique web domains associated with the campaignsin question. These are not intended as an exhaustive list, but may serve as a basis for furtherresearch by the open\-source community. The indicators are indexed according to the OnlineOperations Kill Chain, published by the Carnegie Endowment and also used by Meta.Bad GrammarUnreported Russian threat actor posting political comments in English and Russian onTelegramActorWe banned a previously unreported network of accounts that were using our models to createcomments that were then posted on Telegram. We linked this activity to individuals fromRussia. Given its focus on Telegram, its repeated posting of ungrammatical English, and itsstruggle to build an audience, we have dubbed this network Bad Grammar.BehaviorThis network targeted audiences in Russia, Ukraine, the United States, Moldova and theBaltic States with content in Russian and English.The network used our models and accounts on Telegram to set up a comment\-spammingpipeline. First, the operators used our models to debug code that was apparently designed toautomate posting on Telegram. They then generated comments in Russian and English inAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends13reply to specic Telegram posts. Finally, they appear to have used at least a dozen Telegramaccounts to post those comments.Public Telegram comment matching a text generated by this network. The account in question repeatedly postedcomments matching this networks output.ImageIn English, the operators used our models to generate comments in the voice of a number offake personas belonging to dierent demographics from both sides of the political spectrumin the United States. In Russian, they favored more thematic, less persona\-based instructions.The network primarily commented on posts by a small number of Telegram channels. Themost\-mentioned was the pro\-Russia channel @Slavyangrad, followed by theEnglish\-language @police\_frequency and @SGTNewsNetwork. (The latter poses as aconservative American veteran, but in November, Meta reported that it actually originated inIran.) In a sample of activity from February, the network tried to generate replies to these threechannels twice as often as the 10 next most\-mentioned channels together.ContentThis campaign generated short comments focused on a handful of political themes. In bothEnglish and Russian, the main topics that it posted about on Telegram were the war inUkraine, the political situation in Moldova and the Baltic States, and politics in the UnitedStates.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends14Typical Russian\-language comments on Telegram accused the presidents of Ukraine andMoldova of corruption, a lack of popular support, and betraying their own people to Westerninterference. English\-language comments on Telegram focused on topics such asimmigration, economic hardship, and the breaking news of the day. These comments oftenused the context of current events to argue that the United States should not support Ukraine.Public Telegram comment matching a text generated by this network. The account in question repeatedly postedcomments matching content generated using our models.ImageSometimes, more than one persona commented on the same post, giving conicting points ofview. This two\-faced approach of posing as voices on both sides has been observed beforein Russian operations, and may indicate a desire to attract specic audiences, or to promotedivision.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends15Public Telegram comments matching texts generated by this network. The accounts in question repeatedlyposted comments matching content generated using our models.ImageAfter the terrorist attack in Moscow on March 22 and the detention of four Tajik nationals, thecampaign began using a new cluster of Telegram accounts focused on Tajikistan. Thecomments that it posted called for unity between Tajiks and Russians, and respect forRussian law.Impact assessmentComment\-spamming was already a common technique used by IO before the advent ofgenerative AI. While Bad Grammar used a novel technique to generate its comments, itsdistribution system struggled to attract engagement.Very few of its comments received any likes or replies. The networks comments typicallyconstituted a minority of replies to any one post \- meaning that it did not drown out otherviews, if that was the goal.Occasionally, the network used our models to generate what appear to have been privatemessages, possibly with another Telegram user, but the texts generated suggest that thenetwork was chatting with a cryptocurrency scammer.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends16Using the Breakout Scale to assess the impact of IO, which rates them on a scale of 1 (lowest)to 6 (highest), we would assess this as being in Category 1, marked by posting activity on asingle platform, with no evidence of signicant amplication by people outside the network.DoppelgangerPersistent Russian threat actor posting anti\-Ukraine content across the internetActorWe banned four clusters of accounts using our models linked to people acting on behalf ofthe Russian inuence operation known as Doppelganger. Each cluster displayed dierenttactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs), consistent with an operation made up of dierentfunctional teams.BehaviorThis activity targeted audiences in Europe and North America and focused on generatingcontent for websites and social media.The rst cluster of accounts generated short text comments in English, French, German,Italian and Polish. These were posted on 9GAG and X alongside memes, videos, and linksthat do not appear to have been generated using our models. Some memes were copied fromacross the internet and appear to have been years old.On 9GAG, the accounts that posted this campaigns content typically featured prole picturesof celebrities or cats. They posted their memes and videos in a wide range of channels,including the Random channel and channels dedicated to pets, sports, humor, and evenrelationships and dating.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends17Comment about Ukraine, and video about Gaza, posted to 9GAGs Motor Vehicles channel by an accountwhich repeatedly posted content generated by this campaign.ImageThe reference to Ukraine and the US border was generated using our models. The video wasa collage of news footage.The post received 11 upvotes and 93 downvotes.Each time the campaign posted a meme or video on 9GAG, three to ve accounts wouldreply, usually with simple messages such as hahaha or lol. Each of these accounts onlyever engaged with this campaigns content; most were created on the same date. Thisbehavior often attracted critical comments from other users, many of whom called theaccounts out as bots.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends18ImageComments on the video illustrated above. The bottom three accounts (earliest commenters) were all created inlate April 2024, and repeatedly posted, upvoted or commented on this campaigns posts and no others. The topthree accounts, calling out the fakes, were created between one and ten years ago and showed a wide range ofactivity.On X, the campaigns comments were posted by accounts that typically only ever made oneor two posts each. The comments were usually accompanied by an apparently random link,such as solarpanelfor\[.]sale. These links redirected to a set of websites that have repeatedlybeen attributed to Doppelganger. The websites were geofenced, so that only people with anIP address in the target country could view them. However, the operators appear to haveslipped up, so that some English, German and Polish articles could only be viewed from aFrench IP.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends19ImagePost on X including a comment generated using our models. The comment translates as, A shocking act!Politics should never be associated with violence. We need dialog, not violence.The accompanying link redirects to the German\-language edition of Doppelgangers branded website,rrn\[.]media. However, as of May 20, it could only be viewed from a French IP.Likely in an attempt to evade detection, this cluster accessed our models using a servicelinked to companies in Russia and the Czech Republic. This service was aimed at allowingpeople in Russia to circumvent our supported countries access policy. Weve disabled thisservices API access.The second cluster translated articles from Russian into English and French; the Russian textsappear to have been original compositions. Many of these articles were subsequentlyAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends20published on a website that has been repeatedly attributed to Doppelganger: rrn\[.]media. Thesame cluster generated short comments about its articles that later appeared on social media.Post on X generated using our models, alongside a link to an article on rrn\[.]media.ImageThe third cluster was used to generate, proofread and correct French\-language articles. Thearticles were then published on a website that has also been attributed to Doppelganger,franceeteu\[.]today.The nal cluster operated in German. It ingested content from a Doppelganger website,grenzezank\[.]com, and used this to generate short posts for a Facebook Group and Pagenamed after the website.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends21ContentThe majority of the content that this campaign published online focused on the war inUkraine. It portrayed Ukraine, the US, NATO and the EU in a negative light and Russia in apositive light. Typical comments argued that Russia is an important economic partner forEuropean countries; that Western leaders who criticize Russia are out of touch with their ownvoters; and that Ukraine is weak, corrupt, andor on the verge of defeat.On some occasions, Doppelganger actors tried to get our models to generate cartoon imagesof prominent European politicians and critics of Russia. Our models refused these requests.Impact assessmentNone of the Doppelganger campaigns that we identied appears to have earned substantialpositive engagement from authentic audiences.On 9GAG, typical posts received 5\-10 upvotes \- mainly from accounts which also posted thiscampaigns content \- and anything from 15 to 200 downvotes. On X, typical posts had around1,000 shares, zero replies and zero likes. This discrepancy is so wide that it suggestsinauthentic amplication. One post had three replies, all of which called it out as a fake.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends22ImageReply on X to a Doppelganger post.Using the Breakout Scale to assess the impact of IO, which rates them on a scale of 1 (lowest)to 6 (highest), we would assess the activity that was related to the use of our models as beingin Category 2, marked by posting activity on multiple platforms, but with no breakout orsignicant audience engagement in any of them.SpamouagePersistent Chinese threat actor posting content across the internet to praise China andcriticize its criticsActorWe banned a small number of accounts associated with the China\-origin operation known asSpamouage. This operation has been attributed by Meta to individuals associated withAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends23Chinese law enforcement. Some of this operations social media activity was attributed bythe FBI to a unit within Chinas Ministry of Public Security.BehaviorThis network targeted global audiences, especially members of the Chinese diaspora andcritics of the Chinese government. It mainly generated content in Chinese and, to a lesserextent, English, Japanese and Korean.The network used our models to debug code, seek advice on social media analysis, researchnews and current events, and generate content that was then published on blog forums andsocial media.For example, in 2023 the network used our models to debug code setting the WordPresstheme for a website, revealscum\[.]com. This website published Chinese\-language criticismsand personal information about members of the Chinese diaspora who criticized the Chinesegovernment. It termed these critics traitors. The content itself was not generated using ourmodels.Screenshot of the website revealscum\[.]com, showing the page titled (traitor). We have redacted thefaces of the people targeted by this site.ImageAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends24This campaign also used our models to create content that was then posted on social mediaplatforms and forums. For example, in late 2023 the operation generated articles that accusedJapan of damaging the marine environment by releasing wastewater from the Fukushimapower plant. We identied the articles on platforms including Medium, Blogspot, andameblo.jp.In April 2024, the campaign ran a series of comments in English that criticized Chinesedissident Cai Xia. We identied one X account that posted the initial comment and a cluster ofother accounts that posted the rest of the comments as replies. We did not see any realaccounts replying to them.Post and replies attacking Cai Xia, where the content was generated by Spamouage using our models.Note the lack of reposts or likes. All ten comments on the original post came from accounts that used contentgenerated by Spamouage.ImageAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends25The campaign also used our models to conduct open\-source research, such as how to applyfor developer accounts on social media or asking for summaries of social media posts bycritics of the Chinese government.The networks use of articial intelligence appears to have constituted only a minority of itsoverall output. For example, many of the X and Medium accounts that we identied as postingcontent generated by our models posted a higher volume of content that appeared to havebeen manually created in English and Chinese (as shown, for example, by unidiomatic use ofEnglish). They posted this content both before and after they posted AI\-generated comments.Post on April 22, 2024 by one of the accounts which posted AI\-generated content on April 19\. Both text andimage appear to have been manually created.ImageAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends26ContentMuch of the content generated by this campaign was in Chinese. Topics ranged from praisingthe Chinese governments international law enforcement cooperation to criticizing abusesagainst Native Americans in the United States. Some content criticized the US governmentand Microsoft for exposing the activity of the Chinese hacking group known as VoltTyphoon.Other content was in English. This typically criticized prominent critics of the Chinesegovernment, such as actor and Tibet activist Richard Gere and dissident Cai Xia. A fewarticles generated in late 2023 in English, Japanese, Chinese, Korean and Russian accusedJapan of polluting Pacic waters with the discharge from the Fukushima nuclear plant \- along\-running theme of Chinese IO.One small cluster of activity focused on generating positive comments in Chinese about a visitby Chinas Minister of Public Security to Uzbekistan. This is not a theme which Spamouageis known to have addressed before; it is of interest in the light of the FBIs attribution of someearlier social media activity by this operation to Chinas Ministry of Public Security.Some of the networks activity appears to have reected the operators personal interests. Forexample, one operator used our models to research camera lenses. Another used our modelsto complete what appears to have been a test assignment for Chinese Communist Partymembers.Impact assessmentSpamouage has been one of the worlds most intensively researched IO since it was rstpublicly described in 2019\. Very little of its activity has ever been reported as reachingauthentic audiences.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends27The use of AI\-generated content does not appear to have changed that dynamic. Across theblogs, articles, and social media accounts that we identied as part of our investigation, nonegained high numbers of engagements or follows from real people. In some cases, theavailable indicators show that the only views of their posts came from our investigative team.Using the Breakout Scale to assess the impact of IO, which rates them on a scale of 1 (lowest)to 6 (highest), we would assess this as a Category 2 operation, marked by posting activityacross many platforms, but with no evidence of it being signicantly amplied by peopleoutside the network.IndicatorsWe identied the following domain as being associated with this campaign.TacticTechniqueProcedureIndicator0\. Acquiring assets 0\.6 Acquiringdomains0\.6\.2 Acquiring domains to
support IOrevealscum\[.]comInternational Union of Virtual Media (IUVM)Persistent Iranian threat actor generating pro\-Iran, anti\-Israel and anti\-US website contentActorWe banned a small number of accounts linked to people associated with the InternationalUnion of Virtual Media (IUVM), an Iranian entity that has been studied by the open\-sourcecommunity since 2018\.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends28BehaviorThis campaign targeted global audiences and focused on content generation in English andFrench. It used our models to generate and proofread articles, headlines and website tags.This content was then published on IUVMs current website, iuvmpress\[.]co (earlier IUVMdomains were seized by the FBI in 2020\).The articles were typically created the day before they were published; the website tags werecreated immediately before publication and were likely automated. On one occasion, weidentied a set of website tags that included our models response message, suggestive ofautomation (or poor proofreading).Tags on an article published by iuvmpress\[.]co. Note the rst two tags, which include our models response.ImageAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends29ContentThe content that this network generated consisted of long\-form articles, headlines andwebsite tags. This content was typically anti\-US and anti\-Israel and praised the Palestinians,Iran, and the Axis of Resistance.Impact assessmentIUVMs online presence has been reduced by repeated social media takedowns and the FBIsseizure of its domains. Beyond its website, as of May 23, 2024, we identied IUVM\-brandedaccounts on TikTok, VKontakte and Odnoklassniki. These social media accounts had,respectively, 10, 76 and 274 followers or subscribers.Using the Breakout Scale to assess the impact of IO, which rates them on a scale of 1 (lowest)to 6 (highest), we would assess this as a Category 2 operation, marked by posting activity onmultiple platforms, but with no breakout or signicant audience engagement in any of them.IndicatorsWe identied the following domains as being associated with this campaign.TacticTechniqueProcedureIndicator0\. Acquiring assets 0\.6 Acquiring domains0\.6\.2 Acquiring domains to supportiuvmpress\[.]coIO0\. Acquiring assets 0\.6 Acquiring domains0\.6\.2 Acquiring domains to supportiuvmarchive\[.]orgIOAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends30Zero ZenoFor\-hire Israeli threat actor posting anti\-Hamas, anti\-Qatar, pro\-Israel, anti\-BJP, andpro\-Histadrut content across the internetActorWe banned a cluster of accounts operated from Israel that were being used to generate andedit content for an inuence operation that spanned X, Facebook, Instagram, websites, andYouTube. The network was operated by STOIC, a political campaign management rm inIsrael. In honor of the founder of the stoic school of philosophy, and to reect the low levels ofengagement that the network attracted, we have nicknamed it Zero Zeno.BehaviorThis operation targeted audiences in Canada, the United States and Israel with content inEnglish and Hebrew. In early May, it began targeting audiences in India with English\-languagecontent. It also appears to have been preparing to run a IO campaign targeting audiences inGhana.The operation used our models to generate web articles and social media comments thatwere then posted across multiple platforms, notably Instagram, Facebook, and X.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends31English\-language comments generated by this network and posted on Instagram. Both the original post and thereplies were generated by this campaign.ImageThe operation also used our models to create ctional personas and bios for social mediabased on certain variables such as age, gender and location, and to conduct research intopeople in Israel who commented publicly on the Histadrut trade union in Israel. Our modelsrefused to supply personal information in response to these prompts.Content generated by this network was posted across multiple social media platforms.Open\-source research by the Atlantic Councils Digital Forensic Research Lab identied someof its content on Facebook, Instagram and X; when those accounts were disabled, theoperation acquired new ones. Other content appeared on four websites that posed as activistgroups focused on the Gaza conict and broader issues of relations between individuals ofJewish and Muslim faith: uc4canada\[.]com, the\-good\-samaritan\[.]com, ufnews\[.]io andnonagenda\[.]com.In some cases, we identied this operations fake accounts commenting on social\-mediaposts made by the operation itself, likely in an attempt to create the impression of audienceengagement.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends32Post on X by an account associated with the activity rst identied by DFRLab, together with replies.All the replies in this image were generated by this campaign.ImageMany of the social\-media accounts that posted this networks content used prole picturesthat appear to have been created using an earlier type of articial intelligence: generativeadversarial networks (GAN). Such images can be readily downloaded from the internet.Despite the ease with which these images can be created, we identied multiple social mediaaccounts in this network using the same picture. Sometimes, two or more accounts with thesame prole picture would reply to the same social media post.AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends33Prole pictures of X accounts that posted comments generated by this network. The picture bears visualindicators consistent with GAN generation.ImageContentThis operation was divided into a number of topical campaigns, most of which were looselyassociated with the Gaza conict and the broader question of relations between individuals ofJewish and Muslim faith. In May, we disrupted some activity focused on the Indian electionsless than 24 hours after it began.Open\-source research in February described this network criticizing the UN relief agency inPalestine, UNRWA. The DFRLab report in March highlighted content that focused on Canadaand criticized what the campaigns posts described as radical Islamists there. A furthercluster focused on universities in the United States and accused pro\-Palestinian protesters ofAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends34promoting antisemitism and terrorism. A fourth cluster focused on Qatar, portraying itsinvestments in the US as a threat to the American way of life. A fth cluster generatedsocial\-media posts in Hebrew. These typically praised the Histadrut trade unions organizationand its leadership. Finally, in May, the network began generating comments that focused onIndia, criticized the ruling BJP party and praised the opposition Congress party.Sometimes, the network appears to have ipped its accounts from one topic to another \- forexample, accounts which had earlier posted about Canada switching focus to the USA, Indiaor the Histadrut (or more than one of these).Three comments on X by an account that repeatedly posted content generated by this campaign, May 1\-4 2024\.The earliest post (bottom) appears to have been an attempt at persona building. The second post focuses onCanada and embeds a post from this networks main Canada\-focused account. The third focuses on India.ImageSome of the content created by this network was posted on social media in reply toprominent Western gures on both sides of the political spectrum. These replies generallyAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends35bore no relation to the original post. For example, one comment about Qatar buying upAmerica was posted in reply to a post about former President Trumps musical preferences.Top, post by Laura Ingraham on President Trumps music preferences. Bottom, post containing a commentgenerated by this network.ImageNote the dierence in engagement gures between the original post and the reply.Impact assessmentZero Zenos activity appears to have attracted little if any engagement, other than from its owninauthentic accounts. (Many accounts have already been disabled by Meta and X, so currentengagement gures may not present the complete picture.)AI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends36Using the Breakout Scale to assess the impact of IO, which rates them on a scale of 1 (lowest)to 6 (highest), we would assess this as a Category 2 operation, marked by posting activity onmultiple platforms and websites, but with no evidence of it being signicantly amplied bypeople outside the network.YouTube channel associated with this operations Canada\-focused campaign. As of April 25, 2024, it had postedone video, which had received no views.ImageAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends37IndicatorsWe identied the following domains as being associated with Zero Zenos campaigns.TacticTechniqueProcedureIndicator0\. Acquiring assets 0\.6 Acquiringdomains0\.6\.2 Acquiring domains to support
IOnonagenda\[.]com0\. Acquiring assets 0\.6 Acquiringdomains0\.6\.2 Acquiring domains to support
IOthe\-good\-samaritan\[.]co
m0\. Acquiring assets 0\.6 Acquiringdomains0\.6\.2 Acquiring domains to support
IOuc4canada\[.]com0\. Acquiring assets 0\.6 Acquiringdomains0\.6\.2 Acquiring domains to support
IOufnews\[.]ioAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends38AuthorsBen NimmoAI and Covert Inuence Operations: Latest Trends39