# 2024 State of Software Security

## Addressing the Threat of Security Debt

### Letter from the Editor

Artificial Intelligence (AI) wasn’t born last year, but 2023 was its coming-of-age party. The proliferation of AI-generated code brings with it insecure code at scale and the likelihood of it becoming security debt.

Research indicates that code developed by AI contains about the same percentage of security flaws as that generated by humans. Other research suggests that programmers with a variety of experience levels fail to identify incorrect ChatGPT answers more than a third of the time.

While AI allows more code to be written more quickly, it does not deliver more secure code. The result is more risk introduced into your code base in the same amount of time.

The regulatory landscape has also evolved in the past year, with the US White House Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence, the European Union’s Cyber Resilience Act, and the US Security and Exchange Commission’s Rules on Cybersecurity Risk Management, Strategy, Governance, and Incident Disclosure by Public Companies all coming into effect.

It’s within this context that we explored Veracode’s 18 years of data to answer questions about the accumulation of risk associated with insecure code. It’s not news that applications contain security flaws, but we are excited to share insights on where, how, and why flaws persist over time.

In this year’s report, our 14th, we do a deep dive into the distribution of security debt within applications, across industries and languages. We also continue the conversation that we began in last year’s report regarding risks associated with how developers choose open-source libraries for their apps, with some surprising results.

Given the extent of security debt that we found, it is worth considering whether AI-assisted remediation tools may be helpful to pay down that debt, without the need to redirect your development teams or to increase their size.

As always, we hope you enjoy the journey as much as we enjoy the discovery, analysis, and writing, and that you’ll find in this year’s report inspiration that improves the state of your software security and reduces risk to your organization.

Chris Eng
Chief Research Officer

---

## Table of Contents
- [Letter from the Editor](#letter-from-the-editor)
- [Key Findings](#key-findings)
- [State of Software Security at a Glance](#state-of-software-security-at-a-glance)
- [Measuring and Managing Security Debt](#measuring-and-managing-security-debt)
- [Securing the Software Supply Chain](#securing-the-software-supply-chain)
- [What’s it all mean?](#whats-it-all-mean)
- [Reviewing What We’ve Learned](#reviewing-what-weve-learned)
- [Methodology](#methodology)

---

## Key Findings

1. Good news up front: The prevalence of high-severity security flaws in applications has dropped to half of what it was back in 2016.
2. Roughly 63% of applications have flaws in first-party code and 70% contain flaws in third-party code. That’s why testing both throughout the SDLC is so critical.
3. Third-party flaws take 50% longer to fix, with a half-life of 11 months vs. 7 months for flaws in first-party code.
4. More concerning still, almost half (46%) of organizations have persistent, high-severity flaws that constitute critical security debt.
5. Flaws that stick around longer than a year become security debt. That occurs in 42% of applications and 71% of all organizations.[^1]

[^1]: For the purposes of this report, we are defining security debt to mean all flaws that remain unremediated for over one year.

---

## State of Software Security at a Glance

### How common are security flaws?
Security flaws aren’t ubiquitous, but they’re far from rare. Based on the most recent SAST, DAST, and SCA scans using Veracode, unresolved flaws were detected in 80% of all active applications.

![Figure 1: Percent of applications with security flaws detected in most recent scan]

### Are flaws becoming less common?
In general, the results do show a steady downward trend over the last eight years. We’re particularly encouraged to see that the prevalence of high-severity flaws has dropped to half of what it was back in 2016.

![Figure 2: Trend of flaw detection rates over time]

### How many flaws do applications have?
On average, a typical application has 42 flaws for every 1 MB of code.

![Figure 3: Density of flaws detected in applications]

### How critical are software security flaws?
There are two primary metrics for assessing whether flaws represent a critical security risk—severity and exploitability.

![Figure 4: Rating of flaw severity and exploitability (percent of all flaws)]

### What types of flaws are most common?
![Figure 5: Prevalence and intensity of CWE and OWASP flaws in applications]

### Where are flaws most likely to be introduced?
Roughly 63% of applications have flaws in first-party code, and 70% contain flaws in third-party code.

![Figure 6: Prevalence of flaws in first-party vs. third-party code among applications]

### How quickly are flaws remediated?
The half-life for flaws across all applications is about nine months. 41% of first-party and 48% of third-party flaws persist beyond the one-year mark to become “security debt.”

![Figure 7: Probability of flaws converting to security debt in first-party vs. third-party code]

### How common is security debt?
42% of active applications have flaws that constitute security debt.

![Figure 8: Prevalence of security debt across all applications greater than one year old]

---

## Measuring and Managing Security Debt

We define security debt as any flaw that persists unremediated for longer than one year.

### The prevalence of security debt
A large majority of organizations (71%) have security debt at some level. Close to half of all firms (46%) have high-severity persistent flaws that we’ll classify as critical security debt.

![Figure 11: Prevalence of security debt and critical security debt among organizations]

### Factors that contribute to security debt
- **Application age**: Indebtedness grows to ~62% at the three-year mark and rises further still to 75% after five years.
- **Application size**: Large applications have the highest proportion of security debt (40% of applications) and critical debt (47%).
- **Application language**: Different languages have inherently different security postures, environments, and controls.

---

## Securing the Software Supply Chain

Managing third-party (open-source) code security is an entirely different animal than managing first-party code.

### Understanding open-source dependencies
"Homegrown" applications likely include dozens—or even hundreds—of libraries developed outside of the house.

![Figure 33: Number of libraries per application over time]

### Assessing the security of third-party libraries
We’d love to see security as a key factor in selecting third-party libraries, but functionality usually drives those decisions. The Open Source Security Foundations (OpenSSF) “Scorecards” project was developed to scan open-source repositories and identify potential and realized security issues.

---

odebase, use of branch protection, signs of dangerous coding patterns, known
vulnerabilities, the use of code reviews and SAST scans, etc.

These checks can be useful to devs when examining their own repositories or evaluating others. They also provide us with a rich data
set that we can combine with Veracode SCA data to get deeper insights into software supply chain security. This overlap between
those sources can be seen in Figure 36.

Figure 36: Overlap between libraries with OpenSSF scores (1.24M) and libraries used in applications scanned by SCA (97,887).

The larger cyan-shaded circle in Figure 36 represents the 1.24 million repositories (libraries) scored by OpenSSF, and the smaller
blue circle represents the nearly 98 thousand libraries detected during our SCA scans of enterprise code. There are a few interesting
discussions Figure 36 should open up. For example, the sheer quantity of open-source libraries and the management challenge that
they present to organizations and developers. Now that challenge is made more manageable because only about 4% of those libraries
are actually observed in use through SCA scans of enterprise software. But Figure 36 brings up another interesting discussion
when dealing with third-party libraries: while naming things is hard, naming things consistently across multiple locations would give
Sisyphus a run for his money when it comes to the futility. To outline the challenge in library names, we discover over 1,700 unique
Javascript “react” libraries being used, with nearly 400 libraries just within the “react-native” world, and don’t get us started on names
that include their version string. But the outcome is a challenge in attribution and tracking libraries back to their source repository,
making any automated attempt to monitor for updates, patches, or security advisories just that much more difficult.

35

Veracode State of Software Security 2024

35

Veracode State of Software Security 2024The difference between a library existing versus actually being used does open the door for a comparison of the relative level of
security between the two. Figure 37 compares the overall OpenSSF scores (higher is better) between the libraries we discovered in
use, versus those we did not find evidence of use. In general, those used in customer applications scanned with SCA tend to have a
higher score, perhaps suggesting that the more “successful” a library is, the more that security is a priority for library maintainers.

Figure 37: OpenSSF score for used (blue) vs. unused (red) libraries.

This is great information when a library’s repository and code are available, but as we noted above, only about half the libraries
observed in applications have a repo that we can successfully match to an OpenSSF scorecard. So what about those other ~40k
libraries? Are there other reasonably discernible indicators that serve as a proxy for how secure they are?

A few candidates stand out that we’ll test: the number of contributors, the time between active contribution days, the time since the
last commit, and committer diversity. The first three are fairly self-explanatory, but the last one deserves an explanation.

We’re referring to diversity in the ecological sense here. We want to measure not only the number of committers to a repository but
how well the commits are spread across them. For example, if a repository has 100 contributors and one developer is responsible
for 98% of the code, the codebase arguably has a single developer. A codebase with higher committer diversity would have a more
equitable share of contributions.

36

Veracode State of Software Security 2024So, how do these potential indicators of open-source security correlate with the OpenSSF scorecard? Pretty well, actually, according
to Figure 38.

Figure 38: Relationship between open-source repository activity indicators and OpenSSF Score

The red line in Figure 38 traces a rolling median for all libraries at each score level. The darker blue region extends from the 25th to
the 75th percentile, and the lighter blue covers the full range (it’s basically a box plot in motion over the OpenSSF score). Since there
aren’t many libraries that receive an OpenSSF score of 1 or 9 (0.2% of the scores were below 2.0 or above 9.0), we removed those
from the chart. Even with those removed, the wide shaded regions reveal there’s a high degree of noise or uncertainty around each
of these indicators.

Having said that, there does appear to be at least some signal here:

•

Libraries with more contributors tend to have better security scores.

•  Other than some outliers with very insecure ratings, frequently updated libraries have better security scores.

•  Higher committer diversity (equally shared workload) is a good indication of better security scores.

•

Long lags between commits are a red flag for worse security scores.

So, if you are faced with using a library that hasn’t been scored by OpenSSF and can’t be scanned directly, examining commit activity
may offer some indication of code that’s likely to be more (or less) secure. But it’s a weak signal with low confidence. Inspection will
always trump inference when it comes to the security of open-source software.

37

Veracode State of Software Security 2024Addressing security debt in the software supply chain

The final thing we’d like to examine when thinking about the software supply chain is whether the underlying security of a library
affects how upstream applications accrue security debt. To test that, we’ll borrow the OpenSSF scores for libraries again for which
we also have SCA scans (the overlap in the Venn diagram of Figure 36).

Figure 33: Number of libraries per application over time (rolling geometric mean)

Figure 39 gives a view of how quickly flaws in open-source libraries of varying OpenSSF scores are addressed by the developers
using the open-source libraries. The general pattern depicted here is that libraries with better scores tend to be fixed more quickly
(i.e., the 69-day shorter half-life for OpenSSF score of 9 vs. 2). But there’s quite a bit of inconsistency in that trend, and it certainly
doesn’t convey a message like “more secure libraries are always fixed much faster.”

We did see a substantial difference between libraries with an OpenSSF score and those that, as best we could determine, had not
been scored (see Figure 40). In other words, any score is better than no score at all. This may be due to the fact that libraries that are
open source with available code and contribution histories may be more likely to update faster and be transparent about any flaws.
Perhaps open-source collaboration does indeed make things more secure.

Figure 40: Fix rate of SCA flaws when the repository has an OpenSSF score and when it doesn’t.

38

Veracode State of Software Security 2024Next, we were keen to identify specific open-source libraries that are more prone to contributing to security debt in the applications
of Veracode customers. After examining the 50 most popular libraries for each language, we found that some of them are far more
likely to add to your backlog than others.

Figure 41 attests to this fact, showing the top eight contributors to security debt for each language. Some interesting observations
can be made here. First and foremost, libraries in all languages are prone to some level of debt. JavaScript is on the low end, perhaps
due to its large ecosystem of small libraries. Python and .NET sit on the higher end, with the debt ratio for several libraries exceeding
the 50% mark.

Figure 41: Third-party libraries most prone to security debt in upstream applications

What Figure 41 doesn’t tell us is how common these libraries are and what share of overall security debt across applications can be
attributed to them. Figure 42 examines this in a little more detail, comparing how much of a library’s third-party flaws end up being
debt vs how often it’s used.

39

Veracode State of Software Security 2024Figure 42: Comparison of library popularity and share of security debt in applications

Libraries that contribute to the largest share of security debt occupy the upper half of the charts for each language. Those in the
upper-right are prevalent across applications and also accrue a lot of debt (e.g., jackson-databind for Java apps). The upper-left region
is interesting because those libraries are relatively less common (though these are all bangers) but account for a disproportionate
amount of all security debt (e.g., lodash for JavaScript apps).

5Coincidentally we also see “lodash” in .NET applications, which is a library that someone took the time to implement with similar functionality as it’s JavaScript brethren. Curious
that it also occupies roughly the same space—popular, but not too popular—and accounting for a large amount of security debt.

What’s it all mean?

As we mentioned above, managing your software supply chain is a different beast entirely compared to managing your own code.
Regardless, there are some heuristics that you can examine to hopefully guide your decision-making process around selecting
third-party libraries. The primary advice is to select libraries that are open source and actively developed by a diverse community
of contributors. These libraries are more likely to have security controls in place in their repository to make them more secure, and
first-party developers tend to be able to address flaws in these libraries more quickly.

40

Veracode State of Software Security 2024Reviewing
What We’ve
Learned

We threw a ton of data points and visualizations at you in this report, so thanks for sticking with us to
the end. One of the challenges with dense content like this is that it can be easy to miss the forest for the
trees. Sure, each tree may be worthy of individual study, but sometimes a quick stroll through the whole
forest is the only way to get the lay of the land.

In that spirit, we’d like to take a quick stroll with you through key lessons we’ve gleaned from this analysis.
Our hope is that it will grant a fresh perspective on the application security landscape and how your team
can navigate it successfully.

41

Veracode State of Software Security 20241. Security debt is endemic

Over 70% of organizations have security debt and nearly half have critical debt. Security debt accrues at similar rates in first and
third-party code and affects applications both large and small. It’s not hyperbole to describe the state of software security as
drowning in debt.

2. Fix capacity is constrained

“Drowning” turns out to be an appropriate word because most development teams truly are in over their heads when it comes to
security debt. Only two out of ten applications show an average monthly fix rate that exceeds 10% of all security flaws. And though
it’s true that observed capacity often stems from choice (not to remediate) rather than inability, the end result is the same. Few teams
bail fast enough to reverse the tide of debt once it starts rising.

3. Risk prioritization is key

So, if the rate of new and existing flaws will always exceed the capacity to remediate them, should AppSec teams just up on
stemming the tide of security debt? No—there’s still hope for rescue!

Our analysis revealed that just 3% of all flaws constitute critical security debt. This small subset of high-severity, persistent flaws
represents pound-for-pound greatest risk exposure to your applications. Since fixing 3% of flaws is an achievable target for the
vast majority of dev teams, why not prioritize those? Granted, this won’t eliminate security debt from your applications. But it will
minimize risk—and that’s the main goal.

4. Can AI scale fix capacity?

Let’s presume for a moment that focused development teams could stay on top of critical security debt over time. What then? Even
the best teams can only fix a minority of flaws in their applications (Lesson #2). How can organizations begin addressing the long
backlog of security debt as well as new flaws that emerge?

At the top of this report we discussed the impact that AI already has on code development and how this helps development teams
scale. We shared research showing that untrained Large Language Models (LLMs) produce code at pretty much the same quality as
that produced by humans. Expect us to follow up on this topic with a more detailed look in next year’s report. We strongly believe
that AI can make the dream of accelerating code fixes a reality, especially when using LLMs that have been trained on specific CWEs,
to work alongside developers to suggest secure fixes at scale.

That’s the kind of scaling factor that can break through existing fix capacity constraints to help eliminate all security debt—not just
the riskiest subset. As a bonus, AI-augmented fixes can free up developers to spend more time creating value rather than fixing flaws.
Less risk, more reward—everyone wins. How often do we get to say that in AppSec?

42

Veracode State of Software Security 2024Methodology

43

Veracode State of Software Security 2024The data represents large and small companies, commercial software suppliers, software outsourcers, and open-source projects.
In most analyses, an application was counted only once, even if it was submitted multiple times as vulnerabilities were remediated
and new versions uploaded. For software composition analysis, each application is examined for third-party library information and
dependencies. These are generally collected through the application’s build system. Any library dependencies are checked against a
database of known flaws.

The report contains findings about applications that were subjected to static analysis, dynamic analysis, software composition
analysis, and/or manual penetration testing through Veracode’s cloud-based platform. The report considers anonymized Veracode
customer data as well as information that was calculated or derived in the course of Veracode’s analysis.

This research draws from the following:

1,007,133
applications across all scan types

1,553,022
dynamic analysis scans

11,429,365
static analysis scans

All those scans produced:

96.0 million
raw static findings

4.0 million
raw dynamic findings

12.2 million
raw software composition analysis
findings

6Here we mean open-source projects who use Veracode tools on applications in the same way closed-source developers do. This is distinct from the software composition
analysis presented in the report.

A Note on Mass Closures

While preparing the data for our analysis, we noticed several large single-day closure events. While it’s not strange for a scan to
discover that dozens, or even hundreds, of findings have been fixed (50 percent of scans closed fewer than three findings; 75 percent
closed fewer than eight), we did find it strange to see some applications closing thousands of findings in a single scan. Upon further
exploration, we found many of these to be invalid. These large collections of flaws were both added and removed in single scans:
Developers would scan entire filesystems, invalid branches, or previous branches, and when they would rescan the valid code, every
finding not found again would be marked as “fixed.”

These mistakes had a large effect:
The top 0.02-percenters, or about 1 in  every 6650 scans  (0.02%) accounted for almost a quarter (24.6%) of all the closed findings

These “mass closure” events have significant effects on measuring flaw persistence and time to remediation and were ultimately
excluded from the analysis.

44
44

Veracode State of Software Security 2024

Veracode State of Software Security 2024Copyright © 2024 Veracode, Inc. All rights reserved. Veracode is a registered trademark
of Veracode, Inc. in the United States and may be registered in certain other jurisdictions.
All other product names, brands or logos belong to their respective holders. All other
trademarks cited herein are property of their respective owners.