DATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERS\+2021 Year End Report 
Data Breach QuickView Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSIn This IssueF EA TUR INGVI EW P OIN TSF R OMInga Goddijn 
Executive Vice President, 
Risk Based SecurityInga found her way to information security after working for twenty years in the insurance 
industry. During her time managing a multi\-million dollar portfolio of technology and cyber 
insurance coverages, Inga witnessed first\-hand the impact of ineffective security program 
management and the financial fallout from data breach events. At Risk Based Security, she is 
responsible for Cyber Risk Analytics and YourCISO, Inga has presented at a variety of industry 
forums and has led many education sessions throughout the US She currently holds a CIPPUS 
designation.Ashley Allocca 
Cybersecurity Intelligence Analyst, 
FlashpointAshley Allocca is a cybersecurity intelligence analyst at Flashpoint. Her research focuses on 
cyber threats in the retail, financial, and healthcare sectors, as well as other emerging threats 
in illicit communities across the deep and dark web, and open web. She has presented at CNPs 
Holiday Preparation webinar, AARPs Cyber Security Awareness webinar, and participates in
H\-ISAC threat briefings, among others. She has also contributed to several cybersecurity\-
focused publications. Ashely holds an M.S. in Cybersecurity from Fordham University, which 
has been designated by NSA and Homeland Security as a center for excellence in cybersecurity.2 0 2 1 YE ARE NDDAT ABR EAC HQU IC KV I EWRE PO RTWelcome 3Key Highlights 3Looking Back at Six Years of Breach History 42021 Trends in Data Theft and Malware 6Data Breach Trends in 2021 92021 At a Glance 10What Was Breached in 2021? 17Who Was Breached in 2021? 19Where Did Breaches Occur in 2021? 20In Closing 22About Risk Based Security 24About Flashpoint 24 Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSWelcomeIt is fitting that the publication of this report aligns nicely with Groundhog Day. In many ways, 2021 echoed several of the samethemes we witnessed in 2020: sparsely stocked shelves returned as the coronavirus continued to wreak havoc with supply 
chains, return to work \& school plans were upended yet again, and another year of brazen breaches made headlines.The key trends examined in our Mid Year Data Breach QuickView Report stayed with us throughout the last half of 2021\. Despiteseveral notable law enforcement successes, ransomware attacks continue to cause financial and reputational pain toorganizations around the world. Also in the first half of 2021, regulators and security researchers alike raised the alarm on thelengthening timeline for disclosing incidents. Unfortunately, by year end, the gap between discovery and disclosure showed nosign of shrinking. Lastly, in our Mid Year report we highlighted the creativity of attackers with our overview of autofill\-assistedfraud. While a similar chain of attacks did not take place in the second half of the year, there was no shortage of breaches thatcaught our attention thanks to the ingenuity of the attackers.Throughout this report we will explore these themes and more. The report will examine breach activity from severalperspectives, ranging from what types of data was targeted, who was compromised, and the impact of these events. In keepingwith our customary practices, this report covers publicly disclosed data compromise events. The statistics and findings are 
derived from breaches first reported between January 1, 2021 and December 31, 2021\.Key HighlightsThere were 4,145 publicly disclosed breaches in 2021, approximately 5% fewer than 2020\. However, additional incidentscontinue to surface. It is typical for the number of breaches disclosed for a given year to subsequently increase by 5% to10% as the data matures. Assuming this pattern continues, 2022 is expected to at least match the 2021 breach count,and potentially exceed it by as much as 5%.The number of records exposed during the reporting period exceeded 22 billion. While this is 14\.5 billion fewer recordsexposed than in 2021 (the year that set an all time high of 37\.2 billion records exposed) it is the second highest year forthe amount of confidential data compromised since 2005\.The number of breaches reported in the United States increased 10%, growing to 2,932 in 2021 compared to 2,645 in2020\.Names and Social Security numbers (or their non\-US equivalents) were the two most compromised data types. Paymentcard information, which has become less attractive to malicious actors, was compromised in only 3% of reportedbreaches.Overall the healthcare sector experienced the most incidents, accounting for 14% of reported breaches. However, wheneconomic sectors are broken out into their component risk groups, financial services and software providers were thetop two most breached business groups, with healthcare practitioners offices coming in third.Manufacturing, not typically considered a popular sector to target, was the sixth most compromised sector, accountingfor 9% of reported breaches. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSLooking Back at Six Years of Breach HistoryVIEWPOINT by Inga GoddijnThis is the sixth Year End Data Breach QuickView Report Ivehad the honor of shepherding to publication. Over theyears, those involved in developing this information havegrown from a small group of analysts to a talented andcreative team of researchers, data scientists, designers andeditors. Long\-time readers of the QuickView Reports willhave noticed the many changes weve introduced over theyears, including increasingly closer looks at the key trendsinfluencing breach statistics as well as additionalcommentary on the more interesting incidents thatsurfaced during the year. To that end, were checking in onthe state of ransomware attacks \- because what discussionof breach activity would be complete without it \- and thevexing issue of delayed disclosures. Well also share thewinners from our Cyber Risk Analytics researcher poll, inwhich our team was asked which 2021 breaches stand outto you and why?WI LLRA NS OM WARE EV E RG O AW AY ?If I had been asked six years ago whether ransomware wasa serious threat, Im fairly certain I would have said nowithout much hesitation. Back in 2016 there were a handfulof data breaches that included a ransomware component,but those amounted to fewer than 1% of the breachesreported that year. Fast forward to 2019, and ransomware\-related incidents had become prominent enough (presentin 11\.5% of reported breaches) to be called out as asignificant shift in the threat landscape. By the close of2020, 17% of reported breaches involved ransomware, and 
in 2021, the percentage climbed to 21%.In the 2021 MidYear Report, we noted there were reasonsto be hopeful that the tide was turning on ransomwareoperations. Thanks to a series of very public and very highprofile attacks, significant resources flowed to combatingthe threat, which in turn led to several law enforcementsuccesses. DarkSides public infrastructure was knocked off\-line, and REvilSodinokibi was shut down for good.Unfortunately, the lull in activity didnt last for long. In total,there were 874 breach events that included a ransomwarecomponent in 2021\. 453 of those came to light in the firsthalf of the year, 421 in the second half. As one operationshuts down, new groups emerge to take their place andkeep the attacks flowing.BE TT ERL AT ET HA NNE VER BU TNE VE RLA TE
ISBE TT E RIn our 2018 Year End Report, we took a closer look at theaverage number of days between when a breach wasdiscovered to when the breach was reported. We picked upon the topic because, after 3 years of closing the gapbetween discovery and disclosure, the number of days ittook for organizations to go from knowing about theincident to reporting it was beginning to increase. Thatseemed unusual, especially with new regulatory emphasis 
being placed on timely reporting.Since that time, the issue has only become morepronounced. In 2021, 15 breaches took more than 365 days\- a full year \- to go from discovery to the release of a formalbreach notification letter. Another 169 events took sixmonths or more. Broadening the scope to look at time ofdiscovery to date of first disclosure (meaning an email, blogpost, tweet, or some other form of communication aboutthe event), 75 events took more than a year to go from Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSdiscovery to first disclosure and another 207 breaches tookholding an umbrella and using a whiteboard\-drawn map forsix months or more to disclose. It would be easy to blamethe weather update. Other than the Colonial Pipelinedelays on the pandemic, but this trend started well beforeincident, no other event this past year was so starkly put onCOVID became a household name. Complex incidentpublic display.investigations, weak enforcement, and a deliberateblindness to notification obligations appear to be at theroot of the delays.NOTE ABL E\&N EW SWORTHYBR EAC H ESThe Cyber Risk Analytics research team analyzes thousandsof breach events every year. With such a high volume ofdata, it takes a truly unique set of circumstances for anindividual event to stand out from the crowd. We touchedon the more notable breaches reported during the first sixmonths of 2021 in our Mid Year Data Breach Report. Forthis Year End edition, were turning our attention to the 
breaches that caught our eye in the second half of the year.It is tempting to see the Sinclair incident as representativeof more sophisticated targeting by attackers. Not only aremalicious actors seeking targets where downtime can resultin significant financial losses, they are seemingly also keenon targeting organizations where the disruption cannot beshielded from public view. Case in point is the Decemberattack on payroll services provider Kronos. The malwaredisabled the Kronos Private Cloud, which hosted data forclients of UKG Workforce Central, UKG TeleStaff, HealthcareExtensions and Banking Scheduling Solutions. As of thisreport, at least twenty five Kronos customers, includingmajor U.S. cities and healthcare systems, were left resortingto manual workarounds in order to pay employees. BreachThe October ransomware attack targeting Sinclairfatigue may leave many feeling indifferent to the latestBroadcast Group was one such noteworthy event. At firstattacks. By threatening the payroll of thousands of workersglance the incident appears to be a fairly typical event. Aacross the country, attackers were all but guaranteed torelatively new variant of WastedLocker ransomware dubbedgenerate publicity for their actions.Macaw was launched in Sinclairs systems on October 16th.Unfortunately for Sinclair, the attackers hit a sweet spot inSinclairs operations leaving many local affiliates scramblingto fill air time. TV stations across the country were leftunable to broadcast local news, access syndicatedprogramming, or air local advertising. Even as programmingcame back on\-line, local newscasters were left withoutaccess to the supporting tools used to create content. Thatled to journalists reading from paper copy, sports scorestaped up on a wall, and one weatherman resorting toLastly, no discussion of 2021 breaches would be completewithout a shoutout to one of the more entertaining eventsof the year. In early summer, Russia\-based pizzeriafranchiser Dodo Pizza had data on 584 franchisees sharedon Github. Included in the mix were the URLs to access livesecurity camera streams, displaying real\-time pizza makingoperations across their various locations. Not only did itremind us of the near\-universal appeal of a really goodslice, it was charming to see the considerable care goinginto creating a pie in far flung locations like Kyrgyzstan. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERS2021 Trends in Data Theft and MalwareVIEWPOINT by Ashley AlloccaOn January 12th, Risk Based Security and Flashpoint announced that we are joining forces. Flashpoint is the leading providerofthreatintelligence,withexpansivedata collectionsbackedbyanunrivaled teamof securityanalysts.WerepleasedtoincludeFlashpoints review of 2021, highlighting key observations of activity taking place on illicit and underground forums.1\.MO STD ISCUS SE DM AL WARET YP ESA NDHA CKINGS ER VICE SThe top 10 most discussed malware types and hacking services discussed over the last year were dominated by phishing,stealers, Zero\-day attacks, and ransomware, which has notably been banned from a number of top\-tier illicit forums. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERS2 .M OSTP O PUL ARF OR UMSThe most popular forums where threat actors advertised and solicited breached reporting were Raid Forums and Exploit, by far.3 .M OSTTA RG ET ED SE CT ORSThe sectors most commonly linked to data advertised in forums in 2021 were:Government (commonplace data types were Social Security Numbers (SSNs), drivers licenses, passports, and othergovernment\-issued identity documents);Financial (fullz, bank logs, and databases, online retailers that store financial data)Healthcare (mostly U.Sbased, personally identifiable information (PII), protected health information (PHI), financialdata, and login credentials)Education (compromised credentials, e.g.)Retail (holiday fraud, e.g.)4 .M OS TP O PUL ARACC ESST YP ESAD V ER T ISE DThe most popular access types advertised for sale on forums was admin\- or user\-level access for Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) virtual private network (VPN) and content management systems (CMS). This type of access could lead to the compromise ofcustomer personal information and, in some cases, financial information.5 .R IS EO FS QLI NJ ECT IONA DSAdvertisement of SQL injections (SQL) trended upward, gaining steam in popularity as a method for sellers to guarantee dataintegrity to their customers.6 .P RI CIN GISB EINGWIT HH E LDRecently, threat actors have been omitting pricing information more than usual although its unclear exactly what motivationsmay be spurring this emerging trend. It is possible that withholding the desired sale price leads only seriously interested buyersto contact the seller. This trend further increases the difficulty of assessing data pricing within illicit forums. Since negotiationsare being held in private chats and listing and sale prices are increasingly being withheld, it remains difficult to know the exactvalue of these data types.7 .NEG OT IA TI ON SV IA CH ATNegotiations (including communications around vouching and proof\-of\-concept) have appeared to shift to encrypted chatservices from the forum themselves.8 .GEOG RA P HI CD ISCL O SU RE SThreat actors, most of whom are out for financial gain, are increasingly disclosing geographical information about the data andaccess they advertise. According to our collections, the unknown category \- which denotes data for sale without location\-specificinformation \- is down almost 42%. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERS9 .ZE RO\- DA YANDPH IS HI NGA DS DO MI NA TERA IDRaid Forums \- traditionally popular amongst threat actors for buying and selling breach data \- emerged as a major player inmalware and hacking services as well in 2021\. Zero\-day and phishing attacks were by far the most advertised exploits.1 0 .RA NS OM WAREIST AB O ORansomware has been widely banned on major forums as evidenced by referring to their ransomware offerings as crypters orlockers to avoid their post or account getting immediately banned. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSThe Data Breach QuickView report is powered byThe standard for actionable data breach intelligence, 
risk ratings and supply chain monitoring.1\.Cyber Insurance2\.Security \& Vulnerability 
Management3\.Vendor Risk Management4\.Procurement5\.Governance \& 
ManagementREQUEST A DEMO 
riskbasedsecurity.comcontactLEARN MORE Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSData Breach Trends in 2021A question we are often asked is whether the data breach landscape is getting better. Looking back over 2021 and 2020, thenumbers do not provide a simple answer. The time it takes to report a breach, coupled with the lingering effects of a drop\-off inmedia coverage and more ransomware attacks that can be kept out of public view, has undoubtedly played a role in the declinein publicly reported breaches. At the same time, the number of sensitive records exposed continues to reach well into thebillions. Read on for more insights into the who, what, when, and where of breach activity that shaped 2021\.2021 At a GlanceFigure 1\. Number of breaches reported by EOY, for the past eight yearsAt the time of this report, the number of publicly disclosed data breach events stood at 4,145 or approximately 6% below 2020\.Does this mean there were fewer breaches in 2021? Based on our experience of how the data develops over time, the answer isa resounding no. Readers of the 2020 Year End Report may recall at the time that report was issued, the number of publiclydisclosed breaches stood at 3,932\. We estimated that number would grow by 5% to 10% over the course of 2021\. The numberactually increased by 11\.8%. The same factors, noted in the above introduction, that impacted 2020 continue to be presenttoday. Assuming another conservative estimate of 5% to 10%, we anticipate the number of breaches for 2021 will settle in arange between 4,352 to 4,560\. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSFigure 2: Number of records lost (in billions) reported by EOY, for the past eight yearsUnlike the number of breaches reported, we anticipate little change to the colossal number of records exposed in 2021\. At 22\.7billion records, 2021 is second only to 2020 in terms of the volume of data compromised. The three largest breaches of 2021account for 82% of exposed records, with the largest breach of the year contributing 16 billion records (70%) to the total. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSFigure 3: Number of breaches by breach type, reported by EOY 2021Figure 4: Number of records lost by breach type (in billions),
reported by EOY 2021Since the 2017 Year End Report, Hacking (unauthorized access to systems or services) has been the top breach type, accountingfor the most reported breaches, while Web (publishing, sharing or open access to data online) has been the top breach typeresponsible for exposing the most records. Where the trends become more interesting is looking down the charts to thesubsequent breach types.For the first time since the 2016 Year End Report, the breach type Email makes the top five, appearing in our chart of breachesby breach type as a result. Much like Web, these events are largely driven by user error. Attaching documents containingsensitive information, sending emails to the wrong recipients, and failure to appropriately utilize the BCC function all contributedto the rise of Email breaches (note: unauthorized access to email accounts is typically captured as a Hacking event). These mayseem like minor incidents, but these are often subject to disclosure or notification laws. That means what may seem like aninnocuous event can still result in additional costs to the organization.The usual suspects dominate the breach types responsible for exposing the most records. Of note, the breach type Unknown ismaking an appearance in the records exposed by breach type chart. How can a breach type be Unknown? This is often afunction of how the event is publicly surfaced. Certain sources reveal little more than the fact that a data compromise event hasoccurred. While these are typically smaller events, impacting fewer than 10,000 records, 2021 saw ten incidents with anUnknown breach type impacting more than 10,000 records, including four that impacted over 500,000 records each. Theseincidents combined to push Unknown into this years statistics. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSFigure 5: Number of breaches by attack vector, reported by EOY 2021Outside: 3,176Accidental (Inside): 392Malicious (Inside): 102Inside: 625Unknown: 344Unknown (Inside): 131There is no doubt a malicious insider can do significant harm to an organization. Even ransomware operators have picked up onthe opportunity, with news surfacing in late summer that unhappy employees of targeted organizations were being bribed todeploy ransomware. But insider errors can be equally damaging. In 2021, seven incidents attributable to insider mistakesaccounted for the exposure of more than 19 billion records, including the leak at FBS Markets, the largest breach ever recorded.Figure 6: Number of breaches by known confidentiality impact, reported by EOY 2021No breach of confidentiality: 2Yes \- Confirmed: 2,201Potential: 1,920Unknown: 3If a database leaks online, but no one is there to pick up the data, is it a breach? In our view yes, but we also recognize there is aworld of difference between attackers stealing troves of sensitive data and a loss of control over the same dataset. Inapproximately 53% of the reported data breaches, information was confirmed to be in the hands of unauthorized persons, whilein 46% of breaches data was exposed but no conclusive evidence has surfaced confirming its theft or compromise. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSFigure 7: Severity distribution of breaches in 2021 H1 and H2Figure 8: Severity distribution of breaches in 2020 and 2021Severity score (a measure based on the number of records exposed in combination with the data types compromised, how theattack occurred and more) showed improvement in H2 compared to the first half of the year. With the increasingly long tail fordisclosing breach details, it would not be surprising to see the average severity score for 2021 increase somewhat. That said,predicting which direction the severity score will go is difficult. What can be safely assumed is that regardless of direction, it willmost likely stay in the range of 5\.4 to 5\.7\. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSRecords CompromisedNumber of IncidentsYearNumber of IncidentsUnknown21861 to 910 to 99100 to 9991,000 to 9,99910,000 to 99,999100,000 to 999,9991,000,000 to 9,999,99910,000,000 or above108613646024522349543202120202019201820172016436668483940Table 2: Number of incidents that exposed 10 million or more
records for the past 6 yearsTable 1: Number of incidents with records lost in these ranges reported by EOY 2021One of the effects of the popularity of ransomware attacks is less detail around the number of records exposed. The goal ofthese attacks is less about targeting certain types of data, like customer account information, and more akin to smash and graboperations, with attackers pilfering whatever seems to be of value to the compromised organization. This has contributed tonearly 53% of breaches with an unknown \- or more precisely, unconfirmed \- number of records compromised.That said, there is positive news contained in these numbers. For incidents where the number of records is known, more thanhalf (58%) exposed fewer than 10,000 records. Another positive statistic: the median number of records lost stands at 5,269, wellbelow the 10K mark. Lastly, the number of breaches exposing 10 million or more records is well below its 2019 peak of 68incidents. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSYearAverage Number of Days201420152016201720182019202020219170614950727289Table 3: Average time interval between discovery and reportingIn the 2018 Year End Report, we took a closer look at the disclosure timeline. With GDPR regulations taking effect that year,significant attention was being given to the 72 hour deadline for informing data protection offices of the breach. The prevailingquestion at the time was whether this attention would impact how long it would take to go from initial discovery to the date offirst public disclosure (though it should be noted, specific reports made to European regulators are generally not publicinformation). Sadly, the progress that had been made in closing the gap between discovery and disclosure has only lengthenedsince that time. By 2021, the average number of days to disclose a breach had climbed to 89, just 2 days shorter than the highwater mark set in 2014\. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSWhat Was Breached in 2021?Figure 9: Data types exposed in breaches reported by EOY 2021Just as ransomware operations are impacting the number of records exposed, the types of data contained in those records arealso influenced by these attacks. With 874, or 21%, of the publicly reported breaches including a ransomware component, we seea broad range of data types compromised as well as UnknownUnconfirmed data type appearing in 32% of breaches. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSA notable trend over the past three years is the steady increase in the number of incidents that expose Social Security numbersor their non\-U.S. equivalent. Digging deeper into this number, we see that during 2021 the breach types exposing this data donot vary significantly from the overall top 5 breach types. We were however surprised to find that the Manufacturing sectoraccounted for 11% of the breaches exposing Social Security numbers. While FinanceInsurance, Healthcare, and ProfessionalServices topped the charts as the first, second and third economics sectors respectively that exposed Socials, Manufacturersbeat out Education and Governmental entities.Data202120202019Names64%51%30%SSN41%31%15%Misc.37%31%23%Unknown32%28%12%Address29%25%14%Financial24%18%8%DoB24%18%10%Email18%32%62%Accounts18%12%9%Medical16%14%7%Passwords10%25%56%Credit Cards10%12%12%Table 4: Top data types lost in breaches reported by EOY for the past three years Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSWho Was Breached in 2021?Figure 10: Number of breaches by economic sector, reported by EOY 2021Not surprisingly, the Healthcare sector experienced the most breaches in 2021 followed closely by the Finance and Insurancesector. While landing at the top of the chart for most compromised economic sectors is not an enviable position, it is importantto put the breach count into context. While Healthcare topped the list, the industry accounted for only 14% of reported breaches. 
Likewise, Finance and Insurance accounted for 12\.5% and Government, taking third place, accounted for only 10% of breaches.A closer examination of the Healthcare sector reveals that practitioners offices contributed 40% to the sectors total, withhospitals accounting for 28%, other facilities coming in at 19% and social services rounding out the sector contributing 13% ofthe breaches. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSWhere Did Breaches Occur in 2021?Figure 11: Distribution of breaches reported by EOY 2021In keeping with prior years, the United States was home to the most breaches, accounting for 2,953 or 71% of incidents. This isdue in part to the notification laws that require breach disclosures, as well as being the home to a significant number of high\-value targets. While the overall number of breaches reported for 2021 is on par with 2020, the number of breaches reported inthe United States increased 11\.6% in 2021 compared to 2020\.USACanada2,953181United Kingdom125FranceIndiaGermanyRussiaAustraliaNetherlands797153423933All Other569 Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSFigure 12: Percentage of breaches by country, reported by EOY 2021Are some countries home to more hackable organizations than others? It is a challenging question to answer, but breach typeby country does reveal interesting results. The United States, while reporting the most breaches, experienced a wide variety ofbreach types, similar to the Netherlands and Canada. Other locations, like Brazil and France, mostly reported hacking or malwareattacks. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSIn ClosingIf 2020 was a rollercoaster ride, 2021 was more of the same, but perhaps with a little less surprise at the twists and turns thatdefined the year. As hopeful as we were that law enforcement's successes against ransomware operators would put a damperon activity, new groups formed, updated malware strains arrived on the scene, and operations continued after a short blip in late 
summer.Accidental insider errors took a toll as well, contributing significantly to the number of records exposed during the year. Whatsmore, these errors exposed highly sensitive information like Social Security numbers and their non\-U.S. equivalent. Much talkhas been given to how the pivot to work from home would create a field day for malicious actors. Perhaps so, but the stress ofthe past two years is surely playing a role too in the amount of data exposed.What will be in store for 2022? Its difficult to say but one thing we can be sure of is that as long as malicious actors have apathway to attack monetization, there will be no shortage of breaches to cover.Methodology and TermsRisk Based Securitys research methods include automated processes coupled with traditional human research and analysis. Ourproprietary applications crawl the Internet 24x7 to capture and aggregate potential data breaches for our researchers to analyze.In addition, the research team manually verifies news feeds, blogs, and other sources looking for new data breaches as well as 
new information on previously disclosed incidents.The database also includes information obtained through Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, seeking breachnotification documentation from various state and federal agencies in the United States. The research team extends ourheartfelt thanks to the individuals and agencies that assist with fulfilling our requests for information.Data Standards and the Use of UnknownIn order for any data point to be associated with a breach entry, Risk Based Security requires a high degree of confidence in theaccuracy of the information reported as well as the ability to reference a public source for the information. In short, the researchteam does not guess at the facts. For this reason, the term Unknown is used when the item cannot be verified in accordancewith our data validation requirements. This can occur when the breached organization cannot be identified but leaked data isconfirmed to be valid or when the breached organization is unwilling or unable to provide sufficient clarity to the data point. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSThe Risk Based Security PlatformThe Risk Based Security PlatformTransform your information security program with truly risk\-based, asset\-centric intelligence.REVEAL 
the risks that apply to your 
organization.PRIORITIZE 
what impacts your assets, products 
and supply chain.REMEDIATE 
what matters most, coordinating 
across teams.With actionable intelligence, evaluate and monitor vendors in real\-time based 
on five\-star risk ratings and comprehensive historical breach data.LEARN MORE ABOUT THE PLATFORM Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSAbout Risk Based SecurityRisk Based Security (RBS) is a leading provider of Cybersecurity risk management solutions. The award\-winning Risk BasedSecurity Platform automatically correlates enterprise IT assets with comprehensive, independently\-researched vendor, productand vulnerability intelligence from VulnDB and Cyber Risk Analytics. The result is better risk management outcomes, as well astime and cost savings. In addition, YourCISO provides organizations with on\-demand access to high quality security andinformation risk management resources in one easy to use web portal. Headquartered in Richmond, VA, RBS has been a trusted 
partner to many of the worlds best known brands for more than a decade.For more information, visit www.riskbasedsecurity.com, call \+1 855\-RBS\-RISK, or follow us on Twitter at @RiskBased.About FlashpointTrusted by governments and the Fortune 500, Flashpoint helps organizations protect their most critical assets, infrastructure,and stakeholders from security risks such as cyber threats, ransomware, fraud, physical threats, and more. Leading securitypractitioners \- including cyber threat intelligence (CTI), vulnerability management, DevSecOps and vendor risk managementteams \- rely on Flashpoints intelligence platform to proactively identify and mitigate risk and stay ahead of the evolving threatlandscape. To learn more about Flashpoint, visit https:www.flashpoint\-intel.com or follow us on Twitter at @FlashpointIntel. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights ReservedDATA BREACH QUICKVIEW REPORTBETTER DATA MATTERSAbout Cyber Risk AnalyticsCyber Risk Analytics (CRA) provides actionable threat intelligence about organizations that have experienced a data breach orleaked credentials.Along with our PreBreach Risk Ratings, this provides a deep dive into the metrics driving cyber exposures, as well asunderstanding the digital hygiene of an organization and predicting the likelihood of a future data breach.The integration of PreBreach ratings into security and underwriting processes, vendor management programs, and riskmanagement tools allows organizations to avoid costly risk assessments, while enabling businesses to act quickly andappropriately to proactively protect its most critical information assets.REQUEST A DEMO 
riskbasedsecurity.comcontactLEARN MORE 
www.cyberriskanalytics.comN OWA RR AN TYRisk Based Security, Inc. makes this report available on an As\-is basis and offers no warranty as to its accuracy, completeness orthat it includes all the latest data breaches. The information contained in this report is general in nature and should not be usedto address specific security issues. Opinions and conclusions presented reflect judgment at the time of publication and aresubject to change without notice. Any use of the information contained in this report is solely at the risk of the user. Risk BasedSecurity, Inc. assumes no responsibility for errors, omissions, or damages resulting from the use of or reliance on theinformation herein. If you have specific security concerns, please contact Risk Based Security, Inc. for more detailed data lossanalysis and security consulting services. Copyright 2022 Risk Based Security, Inc. All Rights Reserved