# State of the Threat 2021: A Year in Review

## Table of Contents
- [Letter From Our CTIO](#letter-from-our-ctio)
- [Executive Summary and Key Findings](#executive-summary-and-key-findings)
- [About the Report](#about-the-report)
- [Ransomware Remains the Number One Threat for Most Organizations](#ransomware-remains-the-number-one-threat-for-most-organizations)
- [Scan-and-Exploit](#scan-and-exploit)
- [Beyond Ransomware, the Broader Cybercrime Landscape Continues To Flourish](#beyond-ransomware-the-broader-cybercrime-landscape-continues-to-flourish)
- [Identity is King](#identity-is-king)
- [State-Sponsored Threats: Targeted and Focused](#state-sponsored-threats-targeted-and-focused)
- [The Pervasiveness of Cobalt Strike](#the-pervasiveness-of-cobalt-strike)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

## Letter From Our CTIO
After the global uncertainties of 2020, I think we all hoped that 2021 would shape into a degree of normality. But when it comes to cybersecurity, that has not been the case. We started the year looking at the aftermath of SolarWinds, and we haven’t looked back. From HAFNIUM to Colonial Pipeline to Kaseya, the headlines have kept coming all year long.

What has risen to the top is that threat actors continue to innovate and evolve tried-and-true techniques in order to broaden the threat landscape. The Secureworks® Counter Threat Unit™ analyzes trillions of security events every year that often lead to the discovery of early stage ransomware, business email compromise, and nation-state sponsored espionage attacks, and more. As a result, we are able to paint one of the most comprehensive views of the threat anywhere in the security industry.

In this year’s Secureworks Threat Intelligence Report, the team will provide insights and findings generated by coupling the expertise of our research group with direct observations from a vast pool of customer telemetry and incident response engagements. It is my hope, as leader of this talented team of threat researchers, that you will be able to use this summary of what we have seen day in and day out to make your own organization safer from the threats that really matter. And, as always, our entire Secureworks team is here for you. This annual Threat Intelligence Report is only one way we use our deep understanding of the threat, backed by 20+ years of experience, to strengthen security in the communities we serve. From our researchers to incident response to our adversary group to our operations teams to our product engineers who have built our Taegis™ XDR platform software from the ground up—we are one team dedicated to protecting your progress, enabled by technology.

We are honored to be part of your security journey and hope you get new insights out of the research we present here.

A Letter From Our Chief 
Threat Intelligence Officer
Barry Hensley
Chief Threat Intelligence Officer
Secureworks

## Executive Summary and Key Findings
The past year has seen headlines dominated by stories of cyberattacks: Russian supply chain attacks, Chinese espionage groups compromising tens of thousands of Microsoft Exchange servers, and widespread and brazen ransomware attacks by Russia-based cybercriminals.

Condemnations from the U.S. and their allies followed each of these attacks, aimed at shining a light on the perpetrators and holding hostile governments accountable for the malicious cyber activity they have conducted and enabled. The threat level to businesses globally remains high, especially as many organizations are rapidly pursuing IT transformation to support operations in a pandemic environment.

Amidst all this activity, Secureworks Counter Threat Unit (CTU™) researchers continue to track these threats and use their knowledge to develop insights and protections for Secureworks’ customers. Their high-level findings for the period June 2020 to June 2021 are, in order of risk presented to Secureworks’ customers:

Just like ransomware, other types of cybercrime continue to flourish. Business Email Compromise (BEC) remains a significant threat. A flourishing landscape of loaders and downloaders continues to service the demand for malware-based network access for all types of adversary. Law enforcement intervention against these threats, e.g. the Emotet takedown,  has led to tactical successes but is yet to cause significant strategic impact.

- Ransomware remains the number one threat for most organizations. It rose eight percent as a proportion of IR engagements worked in Q1 and 2, 2021 compared to the previous year. There are very few other threats that can cause total loss of business operations for an extended period of time. Ransomware attacks are opportunistic - any organization that is perceived to have money can be a target - and most attacks occur due to gaps in security controls.
- 2021 has seen significantly increased use of zero-day exploits by threat actors, compared to 2020. But threat actors also continue to leverage known but unpatched vulnerabilities in mass scan-and-exploit attacks.
- Both BEC attacks targeting single-factor Microsoft 365 email accounts, and Russian espionage operations leveraging compromised Azure applications and stolen SAML token-signing certificates, e.g. the SolarWinds supply chain compromise, continue to show that identity is king. The role of security controls around authentication will remain crucial as more organizations move to cloud services or hybrid operating models.
- Despite the level of attention it attracts, state-sponsored activity remains targeted and narrowly focused, according to the priorities of the country it originates from. CTU researchers continue to see significant levels of activity from groups affiliated with China, Iran, Russia and North Korea.
- Cybercriminal and state-sponsored threat actors continue to leverage widely available offensive security tools (OSTs) in network intrusions. These tools are easy to use, carry no development cost, and are hard to attribute, making them an attractive proposition. Cobalt Strike, by far the most popular OST tool used by threat actors, featured in 19 percent of network intrusions.

## About the Report
This report lays out CTU researchers’ view of the significant developments in the threat landscape over the past year. Unsurprisingly, post-intrusion ransomware features extensively, as it remains the most significant threat facing Secureworks’ customers.

The report also explores developments in ransomware precursors. The deployment of ransomware is the final stage of an attack: the best time to detect ransomware attackers is in the hours and days prior to that moment. That makes understanding the tools and techniques threat actors use crucial. Scanning and exploiting vulnerable public-facing infrastructure, malware delivered via spam emails, and off-the-shelf penetration testing tools such as Cobalt Strike all feature heavily.

For a subset of organizations, nation state advanced persistent threat (APT) actors also form a significant threat. China, Iran, Russia, and North Korea have all impacted Secureworks’ customers in different ways over the past year. The report looks at the activities of each of those countries in turn. It also draws out the lessons from two high profile but very different APT attacks: the SolarWinds supply chain compromise and the exploitation of Microsoft Exchange Server vulnerabilities.

Throughout, the report will also focus on how attacks can be prevented. Customers can use this information to guide risk management decision-making, inform best practice, and prioritize resource allocation.

### The Secureworks View of the Threat
Secureworks’ unique view of the threat landscape comes from a combination of the incident response engagements it carries out, the telemetry it monitors from the Taegis XDR platform, and the technical and tactical research carried out by the Counter Threat Unit into threat actor activity. Together, that all adds up to a unique level of visibility into threat actor intent, capability, and activity.

In the 12 months from July 2020, the Secureworks Incident Response team and Secureworks Counter Threat Unit conducted over 1,300+ incident response engagements, across a wide spectrum of industry sectors.

- Secureworks processes approximately two trillion events every single week, gathered from security infrastructure in thousands of customer environments around the world.
- CTU researchers gather and analyze data from internally generated and externally collected telemetry, from multiple sources of open-source information, including dark web forums, proprietary botnet emulation systems, and intelligence provided by partners.

The result is a vivid, yet fine-grained picture of threat actor activity that portrays both the thrust of their high-level tactics and the technical details of their tooling. This knowledge fuels the elite threat detection and integrated response actions that Taegis XDR delivers. It finds form in the expert threat intelligence products published every week by the CTU and is condensed in this analysis of the state of the threat landscape over the past year.

![Sources of Secureworks’ visibility of the threat]

## Ransomware Remains the Number One Threat for Most Organizations
The post-intrusion ransomware landscape is thriving. Volume of incidents, number of ransomware operators, and average ransom demands all continue to increase. The ransomware-as-a-service[^1] affiliate model allows operators to scale their operations and significantly lowers the barrier to entry. A successful ransomware attack can instantaneously cripple even the largest of organizations. All of this makes ransomware the single greatest threat facing Secureworks’ customers today. As a result, ransomware engagements account for more than half of the financial crime incidents worked by Secureworks incident responders.

Organizations that apply good security basics can demonstrably reduce their chances of falling victim to ransomware attacks, yet a substantial number continue to struggle with this. At the macro level, a coordinated response to the ransomware actors from international law enforcement and government policy looks promising but is yet to have a major effect.

### How Secureworks Carries Out Attribution
Threat group names used by Secureworks refer to observed activity clusters or intrusion sets. If CTU researchers attribute an attack to a group, it is because the indicators and the tactics, techniques, and procedures observed during the attack match or align with those seen in previous activity attributed to the group. Groups are also clusters of individuals, but individual threat actors may work for more than one group, or may change groups. 

The names are based on metals. In this report you will meet GOLD cybercriminal groups, as well as state-sponsored groups that are IRON (Russia), BRONZE (China), COBALT (Iran), or NICKEL (North Korea). The Secureworks Threat Group profiles are available on the Secureworks website with further information about most of the groups featured in this report.

![Ransomware leak site statistics as of mid-August 2021. The number that follows the slash represents the "Number of days between new victims". (Source: Secureworks)]

### GOLD ULRICK – Back Refreshed and With Different Tradecraft
GOLD ULRICK is the distributor of the Conti and Ryuk ransomware families. GOLD ULRICK is likely comprised of some or all of the same operators as GOLD BLACKBURN, the group responsible for the distribution of malware such as TrickBot, BazarLoader, and Buer Loader. Ryuk was one of the most prevalent ransomware strains encountered by Secureworks incident responders from late 2018 through 2019. It seemed to have disappeared between February and September 2020 but attacks then resumed activity, alongside ‘name-and-shame’ attacks using the Conti ransomware.

CTU researchers assess that since approximately late 2019, GOLD ULRICK began expanding its activities by working with various other operators who were recruited through existing trusted relationships rather than via adverts on underground forums. In August 2021, a persona claiming to be a disgruntled Conti affiliate released a swathe of information including tools and standard operating procedures provided to Conti affiliates by GOLD ULRICK.

Prior to February 2020, Ryuk attacks typically followed a consistent playbook: leveraging an existing TrickBot infection for initial access, deploying PowerShell Empire or Cobalt Strike across the environment, and then staging Ryuk on domain controllers and deploying it widely across the enterprise using either PSExec and batch scripts or Group Policy Objects. The script below is a PowerShell script used to create a Group Policy Object that weakens domain-joined systems’ security settings prior to deployment of Ryuk.

```powershell
# PowerShell script (_this_domain.ps1) used in Ryuk attacks to create Group Policy Object. (Source: Secureworks)
```

However, since September 2020 this expansion has resulted in divergent tactics, techniques and procedures during observed intrusions involving Ryuk and Conti deployments. In one example in early 2021, Secureworks incident responders helped an organization where the threat actor had accessed the environment using stolen VPN credentials and deployed Conti manually to a small number of systems using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). Not only is this a significant departure from previously observed tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs), but the more localized deployment also caused far less impact to the affected organization, very unlike previous GOLD ULRICK intrusions where enterprises have experienced weeks or months of downtime.

### Innovation and Evolution
The last 18 months have seen constant evolution in the ransomware landscape, as criminal groups continue to explore ways to maximize profitability.

GOLD VILLAGE (Maze) pioneered the name-and-shame approach in December 2019. It was quickly followed by GOLD HERON (DoppelPaymer), GOLD SOUTHFIELD (REvil) and GOLD MANSARD (Nemty). Between March 2020 and June 2021, the number of active name-and-shame groups tracked by CTU researchers rose from four to 27. During that time, some groups launched and terminated operations, and others rebranded.

A small number of ransomware operators started adding Linux versions of ransomware to their repertoire, including 777, Babuk, HelloKitty, REvil, and DarkSide.

Linux ransomware often targets VMware ESXi servers, a hypervisor for deploying and hosting virtual machines. This shows the threat actors are devoting resources to improve their effectiveness against enterprise targets.

![REvil Linux variant (‘REvix’) attempting to shut down VMs prior to encryption of the hypervisor. (Source: Secureworks)]
![May 2021 forum post advertising REvil Linux variant. (Source: Secureworks)]

### Name-and-Shame Remains the Name of the Game
Name-and-shame attacks allow for ‘double extortion’. Victims are under pressure to pay to recover their data (availability), but also to prevent it being published online (confidentiality). For some, the threat of sensitive business or client information being made public may be worse than the consequences of their systems being encrypted. The extra threat also comes with a deadline to pay, increasing the pressure to hand over the ransom to avoid further pain in an already painful situation.

Name-and-shame has become the predominant operating method for most ransomware groups, with victims being added to public leak sites at a worrying rate. The most active name-and-shame ransomware group over the past year was GOLD PHANTOM’s Egregor, adding an average of 60 victims a month to its leak site between its launch in September 2020 and its apparent demise at the end of 2020. GOLD ULRICK added an average of 23 new Conti victims a month across the entire period. Grief, the successor to DoppelPaymer launched by GOLD HERON at the end of May 2021, added 23 during June alone.

![Ransomware operators are adding extra tactics to exert extra pressure. (Source: Secureworks)]

Name-and-shame dark web leak sites provide useful insight into the activities of these ransomware groups but may be misleading in terms of scale. They only list organizations that have not immediately paid ransom demands, and they may not list all victims. When Avaddon ceased operation in June 2021, its public leak site had listed a total of 182 victims since the beginning of June 2020. However, when the group shut down its operation, it released a total of 2,934 individual decryption keys[^2], each corresponding to a specific victim. That’s nearly 16 times as many and shows that often only a minority of victims will appear on their public sites.

There are also still successful ransomware operations that do not use name-and-shame tactics, such as GOLD DUPONT. CTU researchers have observed GOLD DUPONT successfully operate Defray and 777 ransomware in several fast and extremely aggressive post-intrusion attacks using Vatet loader, a file transfer tool called ArtifactExx, Cobalt Strike, PyXie RAT, and a variety of native Windows utilities. However, there are now significantly more successful ransomware operations that incorporate name-and-shame tactics than do not.

### Hack and Leak — A Move Away from Encryption?
Some operators have experimented with data theft and extortion only:
- In the December 2020 attack on the Accellion File Transfer Appliance (FTA) software by GOLD TAHOE, operator of Clop ransomware, all the attacker did was exfiltrate data from the Accellion appliance and post it to the Clop leak site.
- Babuk separately claimed to have abandoned ransomware in favor of theft and extortion only in late April 2021, although with limited success.
- In one incident worked by Secureworks incident responders, the threat actor was disturbed during their lateral expansion and consolidation activity. In response to being disrupted, the group immediately shifted into demanding an extortion payment to prevent the data they had already stolen being leaked online.

It is unclear whether theft and extortion without data encryption is a viable business model, even when it is done well. Manufacturing organizations, for example, are far more likely to feel the pain of production downtime caused by critical systems being unavailable. Victims based in countries with relaxed regulatory regimes may not feel sufficiently pressured to prevent data leaking into the public domain to pay the extortion fees demanded.

### Opportunistic Compromise, Targeted Deployment
The ransomware landscape is complex, with multiple different actors collaborating at different stages of the attack lifecycle.

Initial access brokers (IABs) play a critical role in facilitating opportunistic compromises that lead to ransomware deployment. IABs often use publicly available scanning tools to identify vulnerabilities and indiscriminately exploit those flaws.

Once initial access is available, operators may choose to infect systems based on the perceived maturity of a potential victim’s security controls, and the victim’s annual revenue. Some ransomware groups may prioritize certain victims due to perceived success. For example, previous attacks on manufacturing organizations showed that forcing critical manufacturing processes offline provides a strong incentive for the victim to pay the ransom.

Once inside the network the attacker will attempt to target or discover the files and processes that would give them most leverage when disrupted, exfiltrated or encrypted. For example, the Clop operator has been reported to prioritize access to the workstations of senior executives during exfiltration of data from victim organizations. The reason for this tactic is reported to be to obtain the most valuable information.

In other words, post-intrusion operators are generally selective about the victims they hit once initial access has been gained and a degree of triage carried out, but the initial compromise is opportunistic. Ultimately, ransomware attacks occur where access can be most easily obtained and maintained.

![The Ransomware Ecosystem (Source: Secureworks)]

### Buying and Selling Access
Offers of access brokering on underground forums is widespread and IABs are used by both ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) and private ransomware groups. CTU researchers frequently observe advertisements for access to organizations in a wide range of verticals, with healthcare, hospitality, retail, and education being the most common.

In May 2021, a single forum persona tracked by CTU researchers advertised VPN/RDP access to multiple companies in France and the U.S., including a medical research company, a hotel complex, a restaurant chain, and a tobacco and beverage company. The asking price was $800 USD in total. Two different threat actors were selling access to one U.S. university each. One asking price was $250, the other, for domain admin logins, was $6,000.

Listings do not name the victim but do provide basic details such as sector, geography, and revenue. A threat actor buying that access will only find out who the victim is once they have paid into an escrow account run by the forum.

CTU researchers have also observed ransomware operators advertising to buy access, rather than IABs advertising to sell it. One example of this is the BlackMatter ransomware, likely operated by the GOLD WATERFALL threat group who previously operated the DarkSide RaaS.

![An example of an access for sale. (Source: Secureworks)]
![BlackMatter operator advertising to buy access. (Source: Secureworks)]

### Affiliates Drive Scale
The RaaS model has been fundamental in driving scale in the ransomware ecosystem. The use of affiliates greatly increases the number of organizations that can be targeted concurrently. Conversely, the scale of ransomware activities may be constrained or gated by the number of human operators available. Affiliate schemes are therefore key enablers to ‘growth’, but attack sophistication can vary when affiliates have different skill levels.

It is likely that affiliates and RaaS operators form enduring relationships when mutually beneficial. However, each RaaS operation has a limited number of affiliate ‘seats’ available, so affiliates may move to another RaaS operation once a campaign is complete. For example, Babuk operators claimed at the beginning of 2021 they could support two affiliates concurrently, while GOLD SOUTHFIELD claimed that the REvil RaaS could support ten prior to it being shut down. Because operators usually manage the process of negotiation with victims, limiting the number of affiliates allows them to manage the number of victims they are negotiating with.

Affiliates can also cause groups problems. It is thought that affiliates were behind both the REvil Kaseya attack and the DarkSide Colonial Pipeline attack. To control risks of this nature, some operators may forbid affiliates from proceeding with attacks on organizations in certain sectors e.g., healthcare, education, non-profit organizations, critical infrastructure. Limiting the number of affiliates also helps with oversight.

![Groups looking for affiliates on underground forums often advertise for ‘pentesters’. (Source: Secureworks)]
![Babuk advertising for two affiliates. (Source: Secureworks)]

### Law Enforcement and Government Action Against Ransomware
The cumulative impact of ransomware attacks is now being viewed by governments as a national security threat, driven in part by public services being impacted by attacks against healthcare providers, fuel distribution organizers, and more.

In early June 2021, the FBI director, Christopher Wray, said[^3] that cybercrime threat presented “a lot of parallels” to the threat of terrorism before 9/11. In response to a question about whether the U.S. was considering military action against ransomware operators, the commerce secretary, Gina Raimondo, said[^4] that “all the options” were being considered. So far, a range of different response options are being used.

This increasingly assertive law enforcement response is unlikely to change direction in the short term. The ransomware problem remains a difficult one to address. Many of the operators are located either in Russia or in Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries. If they avoid targeting Russian or CIS entities as victims, they are largely left alone by law enforcement. Some actors have been linked with elements of the Russian government and intelligence services, including Maksim Yakubets who was indicted by the U.S. in 2019 for cybercrime offenses. Yakubets previously worked for the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) and is thought to have FSB familial ties.

### The Impact of Malware Loader Takedowns
Both TrickBot and Emotet were the targets of takedown activity. There were two operations against TrickBot , one in September 2020[^5] by U.S. Cyber Command, and then separate actions by Microsoft[^6] in October and November. There was one against the Emotet botnet in late January 2021 by international law enforcement[^7].

By the beginning of 2021, TrickBot’s operator GOLD BLACKBURN had rebuilt its botnet. TrickBot is now back at full strength. GOLD BLACKBURN has also increased its use of other malware including Team9 (also known as BazarLoader) and BuerLoader. The Emotet botnet, operated by the GOLD CRESTWOOD threat group since 2014, has not reconstituted, although CTU researchers assess that the GOLD CRESTWOOD threat group will re-tool or begin to collaborate more directly with other cybercriminal groups such as the GOLD LAGOON threat group that operates the QakBot botnet.

By 2020, the Emotet malware distribution or ‘loads’ service was only servicing TrickBot, Qakbot and, according to open source reporting,[^8] IcedID. All of these botnets have their own distribution capabilities, so they simply switched to their own distribution methods. Overall, there has been little significant change in the amount of malware being distributed to potential victims.

The Biden administration has raised concerns about ransomware with Russia’s President Putin and has claimed that its message has been heard. It is positive that ransomware is now on the agenda for such high-profile dialogue, although the prospects for substantive action being taken. Russia has a long-standing history of non-extradition to the U.S. and other countries, and it is unclear what the U.S. and other countries could or would want to offer in return for Russian cooperation against organized criminals located in Russia.

It seems likely that the game of ransomware whack-a-mole will continue for some time to come. Indeed, the overall level of activity in the ransomware space as a whole has not changed greatly, despite these interventions. By being careful to avoid organizations that significantly impact critical infrastructure or public services, most RaaS and private operations can operate below the threshold at which public opinion will force a more aggressive law enforcement response.

![Law enforcement and government action against ransomware threat actors]

### New Name, Same Game
Ransomware groups appear to have realized that there is such a thing as being ‘too successful’, and that too much public and law enforcement scrutiny can be a bad thing. In May 2021, the response to the Colonial Pipeline incident led to GOLD WATERFALL shuttering its DarkSide operation, only to re-emerge several months later with the BlackMatter ransomware. In July, the prolific REvil ransomware-as-a-service operation shut down following an attack that hit hundreds of organizations through a vulnerability in Kaseya remote monitoring and management software. REvil recommenced operations in September 2021.

### Organizations Can Protect Themselves
Despite takedowns and other law enforcement activity, the opportunistic nature of attacks, combined with the drive to scale, mean that all organizations need to be at the top of their security game.

Organizations that patch promptly and regularly, protect external facing applications with multi-factor authentication, implement the principle of least privilege, segment networks, and implement endpoint and network traffic monitoring and detection can protect themselves against ransomware. It is no coincidence that the financial sector, subject to all-encompassing regulatory requirements concerning security, is less prone to ransomware than other, less strictly regulated sectors. Organizations can and do protect themselves against ransomware every day.

![Security basics add up to ransomware protection.]

Examples include:
- An administrative user was prompted to approve a VPN access request that they did not initiate. A threat actor was likely using a stolen or guessed username and password in an attempt to access the user’s VPN account. Because the organization used multi-factor authentication (MFA) the user had an opportunity to reject the request. The subsequent investigation showed that this one control was critical in preventing the threat actor being able to gain privileged access to the environment.
- CTU researchers discovered a Cobalt Strike command and control IP address identified from one DarkSide ransomware engagement in another organization’s firewall logs. The customer was notified, initiated their incident response procedures, and uncovered evidence of credential theft, privilege escalation, installation of Cobalt Strike across multiple systems, and access to business-critical servers. The organization was able to contain the intrusion before the threat actor was able to deploy ransomware. Although indicator-based controls are insufficient on their own, they can sometimes help and should certainly not be dismissed.

## Scan-and-Exploit
Patching is always easier said than done. Keeping track of the systems and software packages that exist, keeping track of the patches, prioritizing them, finding resources to apply the patches, finding appropriate maintenance windows to avoid user impact, and even just accepting the risk of changing a working critical system are all hard in today’s enterprises. But the fact is that threat actors know this, and unpatched vulnerabilities are easy prey for them.

Multiple groups, both cybercriminals and state-sponsored, will scan the internet for unpatched vulnerabilities to exploit – the so-called scan-and-exploit approach. Most of the time threat actors exploit vulnerabilities where patches have been available for some time. For example, according to data[^9] released from the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA), FBI, and CISA, the top three CVEs routinely exploited in 2020 were well-known: Citrix vulnerability CVE-2019-19781, Pulse Connect Secure’s CVE 2019-11510, and CVE 2018-13379 in Fortinet FortiOS.

However, 2021 has also seen a proliferation of zero-day vulnerabilities being used. Zero-day vulnerabilities in the wild used to be very rare, but Google Project Zero data[^10] showed that the number of zero-days exploited in 2021 had passed 2020’s annual total of 25 by mid-2021. By early August 2021 it stood at 37. Zero-day vulnerabilities typically take lots of time, resources and expertise to identify, and they’re generally used sparingly to avoid detection. It’s unclear what has fueled the growth in identified zero-day exploits; it could be that we are all just getting better at detecting their usage, or it could be that threat groups – particularly state-sponsored and ransomware groups – have more resources at their disposal to buy or find them.

In most cases zero-days are exploited and discovered and exploited in highly targeted attacks, meaning that fewer organizations are impacted. However, once exploit code becomes publicly available, it will rapidly be rolled into commonly available offensive security tools, and many opportunistic threat actors will start leveraging it.

The most effective way of preventing scan-and-exploit is through good vulnerability management, backed up by layered security controls. Timely threat intelligence can help you prioritize which vulnerabilities are more important – e.g., if they’re being actively exploited in the wild or are more easily weaponized.

The message is clear: patching is not straightforward, but without it organizations leave themselves exposed, particularly where they are running critical servers on-premises rather than on managed cloud infrastructure. Where systems cannot be patched, organizations need to consider compensating controls to prevent, detect and contain exploitation of those systems by threat actors looking to drop ransomware, steal credentials or exfiltrate sensitive data.

![Prominent attacks leveraging zero-day exploits]

### 2019 Vulnerability Remains Popular Access Vector
Throughout 2020, Secureworks analysts observed financially motivated and state-sponsored threat groups such as COBALT FOXGLOVE, IRON LIBERTY, and BRONZE UNION exploiting Citrix NetScaler vulnerability CVE-2019-19781 as the IAV in network breaches. This vulnerability allows an unauthenticated user to execute arbitrary code. In the incidents studied by Secureworks analysts, the threat actors delivered a range of malware, including web shells and cryptocurrency miners. The publication of proof-of-concept exploits and the ubiquity of Citrix NetScaler at the network perimeter of organizations worldwide made this vulnerability an attractive vector for threat actors with a range of motivations and varying levels of technical sophistication.

### On-Premises Exchange Server— a Lesson in Patching and Exploitation
In March 2021, Microsoft disclosed four vulnerabilities in on-premises Microsoft Exchange Server that were under active exploitation by Chinese state-sponsored threat actors: CVE-2021-26855, CVE-2021-26857, CVE-2021-26858, and CVE-2021-27065. These were patched by Microsoft at the beginning of March. CVE-2021-26855 became known as ProxyLogon. A further four critical remote code execution vulnerabilities were patched by Microsoft on April 13, followed by an additional four patched in May.

Despite considerable publicity at the time about the attacks and vulnerabilities, industry estimates[^11] suggested that at least 125,000 on-premises Exchange Servers globally remained unpatched by March 9, out of about 250,000 globally. However, by late March 2021, media reports[^12] indicated that 92 percent of vulnerable Exchange servers had applied the March patches. CTU researchers advised throughout that all organizations using affected versions of on-premises Microsoft Exchange Server, even if they had patched, should assume that they could have been compromised and should investigate for signs of an intrusion. This assessment was reinforced by action taken by the FBI, announced[^13] in April by the Department of Justice, to access web shells remaining on U.S.-based Exchange servers and delete them.

Soon after the Exchange Server vulnerabilities became public in March, CISA stated[^14] that it was “aware of widespread domestic and international exploitation of these vulnerabilities.” In other words, cybercriminals wanted a slice of the ProxyLogon pie. Despite the pressure to patch, exploitation of unpatched servers continued for several months.

Ransomware variants known to have been deployed to exposed Exchange servers included the previously unknown DEARCRY or Ransom:Win32/DoejoCrypt.A, and Black Kingdom. Babuk also claimed to have leveraged an Exchange server vulnerability. In April, attackers behind the Prometei Botnet.[^15] leveraged Exchange server vulnerabilities to deploy Monero cryptominers and other malware, and to harvest credentials.

The trend of opportunistic threat actors weaponizing vulnerabilities first identified in targeted attacks is not new. Cybercriminals are opportunists and will look to use publicly available exploit code against organizations that are yet to patch.

## Beyond Ransomware, the Broader Cybercrime Landscape Continues to Flourish
The cybercrime landscape has always been diverse. While many groups have coalesced around lucrative ransomware operations, there remain other threats. Business email compromise and cryptojacking remain significant problems, as does significant levels of credential harvesting, providing fuel to the cybercriminal ecosystem.

The past year has also been notable for the law enforcement fightback. Numerous attempts – some more successful than others – have been made to disrupt or destroy some of the key channels cybercriminals use to compromise their victims and make money.

### Loaders and the Impact of Law Enforcement Takedowns
Whether the ultimate payload is ransomware or cryptominers, loader malware and botnets have always played a significant part in delivery. Emotet had long been one of the most prevalent and successful malware families affecting enterprise organizations, and it often provided the initial access point for ransomware groups. But in January 2021 the Emotet botnet disappeared, successfully disrupted by a collaborative effort between law enforcement agencies from the Netherlands, Germany, United States, United Kingdom, France, Lithuania, Canada and Ukraine in one of the most wide-reaching law enforcement actions against malware ever seen. Emotet disappeared and has not returned.

The successful disruption of Emotet left a vacuum. The loader ecosystem quickly moved to fill it. Botnets active in the past year have included IcedID, Chanitor, Cutwail, Dridex, QakBot, Flubot, and Teabot.
- IcedID in particular has increased its activity levels. Despite a month-long hiatus in June 2021, it has been widely distributed through multiple services, and many threat groups have leveraged the botnet to distribute Cobalt Strike.
- Chanitor has increased its distribution tempo to three to four campaigns per week, distributing Ficker Stealer and Cobalt Strike. This is likely now the largest botnet regularly distributing credential theft malware.
- GOLD HERON has used several spam services, including Cutwail, to distribute Dridex 2.0, Cobalt Strike, and ultimately DoppelPaymer and Grief ransomware.
- GOLD BLACKBURN, at one point the largest customer of Emotet, has had no difficulty finding alternative distribution channels for TrickBot and BazarLoader. These malware families remain top sources of Conti and Ryuk ransomware infections. TrickBot has also re-implemented web injection capability signaling a possible return to high-value financial transaction fraud.
- GOLD LAGOON, like GOLD BLACKBURN, was also a customer of Emotet. It has continued operations since the takedown with Qakbot malware. It has used its own infrastructure to distribute Qakbot using familiar hijacking of reply-to chains in email spam campaigns.

![Snippet of hijacked email thread delivering QakBot. (Source: Secureworks)]

In some cases where the victim is running Active Directory, Qakbot has been used to drop Cobalt Strike, which has then led to ransomware. Qakbot C2 infrastructure appeared to go down in early July 2021. Initially it appeared as if the disappearance might be permanent, but GOLD LAGOON restarted Qakbot activity in September 2021.

Increased law enforcement activity and collaboration with industry is undoubtedly a good thing. However, it remains challenging to deliver long-lasting change when the main players remain out of reach from more traditional law enforcement action. Inevitably, law enforcement action leads to evolution in the remaining botnet landscape and sometimes removing well-known well-understood capabilities makes it harder to detect threat actors as they move to new capabilities. Much like the security community, criminals will study the technical details of takedown operations and use that knowledge to make their own botnets more resilient.

![Reconnaissance commands running on host infected with QakBot. (Source: Secureworks)]

For example, within a day of the Emotet takedown CTU researchers observed configuration changes in the Qakbot botnet operated by GOLD LAGOON. The fact that Emotet infrastructure was hosted in Western Europe made it easier for law enforcement to carry out a successful takedown. As a result, several botnet operators immediately moved their infrastructure into jurisdictions such as Russia to take them out of the reach of U.S. or European law enforcement.

Botnet operators are also writing variants of their loaders in different languages to help evade detection. Buer,