# ANNUAL THREAT ASSESSMENT OF THE U.S. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
## March 2025
## Table of Contents
- [INTRODUCTION](#introduction)
- [FOREWORD](#foreword)
- [NONSTATE TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINALS AND TERRORISTS](#nonstate-transnational-criminals-and-terrorists)
- [Foreign Illicit Drug Actors](#foreign-illicit-drug-actors)
- [Transnational Islamic Extremists](#transnational-islamic-extremists)
- [Other Transnational Criminals](#other-transnational-criminals)
- [MAJOR STATE ACTORS](#major-state-actors)
- [China](#china)
- [Russia](#russia)
- [Iran](#iran)
- [North Korea](#north-korea)
- [Adversarial Cooperation](#adversarial-cooperation)

## INTRODUCTION
This annual report of worldwide threats to the national security of the United States responds to Section 617 of the FY21 Intelligence Authorization Act (Pub. L. No. 116-260). This report reflects the collective insights of the Intelligence Community (IC), which is committed to providing the nuanced, independent, and unvarnished intelligence that policymakers, warfighters, and domestic law enforcement personnel need to protect American lives and America’s interests anywhere in the world. This assessment focuses on the most direct, serious threats to the United States primarily during the next year. All these threats require a robust intelligence response, including those where a near-term focus may help head off greater threats in the future.
Information available as of 18 March was used in the preparation of this assessment.

## FOREWORD
The 2025 Annual Threat Assessment (ATA) is the Intelligence Community’s (IC) official, coordinated evaluation of an array of threats to U.S. citizens, the Homeland, and U.S. interests in the world. A diverse set of foreign actors are targeting U.S. health and safety, critical infrastructure, industries, wealth, and government. State adversaries and their proxies are also trying to weaken and displace U.S. economic and military power in their regions and across the globe.
Both state and nonstate actors pose multiple immediate threats to the Homeland and U.S. national interests. Terrorist and transnational criminal organizations are directly threatening our citizens. Cartels are largely responsible for the more than 52,000 U.S. deaths from synthetic opioids in the 12 months ending in October 2024 and helped facilitate the nearly three million illegal migrant arrivals in 2024, straining resources and putting U.S. communities at risk. A range of cyber and intelligence actors are targeting our wealth, critical infrastructure, telecom, and media. Nonstate groups are often enabled, both directly and indirectly, by state actors, such as China and India as sources of precursors and equipment for drug traffickers. State adversaries have weapons that can strike U.S. territory, or disable vital U.S. systems in space, for coercive aims or actual war. These threats reinforce each other, creating a vastly more complex and dangerous security environment.
Russia, China, Iran and North Korea—individually and collectively—are challenging U.S. interests in the world by attacking or threatening others in their regions, with both asymmetric and conventional hard power tactics, and promoting alternative systems to compete with the United States, primarily in trade, finance, and security. They seek to challenge the United States and other countries through deliberate campaigns to gain an advantage, while also trying to avoid direct war.
Growing cooperation between and among these adversaries is increasing their fortitude against the United States, the potential for hostilities with any one of them to draw in another, and pressure on other global actors to choose sides.
This 2025 ATA report supports the Office of the Director of National Intelligence’s commitment to keeping the U.S. Congress and American people informed of threats to the nation’s security, representing the IC’s dedication to monitoring, evaluating, and warning of threats of all types. In preparing this assessment, the National Intelligence Council worked closely with all IC components, the wider U.S. Government, and foreign and external partners and experts to provide the most timely, objective, and useful insights for strategic warning and U.S. decision advantage.
This 2025 Annual Threat Assessment details these myriad threats by actor or perpetrator, starting with nonstate actors and then presenting threats posed by major state actors. The National Intelligence Council stands ready to support policymakers with additional information in a classified setting.

## NONSTATE TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINALS AND TERRORISTS
Transnational criminals, terrorists, and other nonstate actors are threatening and impacting the lives of U.S. citizens, the security and prosperity of the Homeland, and U.S. strength at home and abroad. Some transnational criminal organizations (TCOs) are producing and trafficking large amounts of illicit drugs that are imperiling American lives and livelihoods. They are conducting other illegal activities that challenge U.S. security, such as human trafficking, cyber operations, money laundering, and inciting violence. U.S. citizens—at home and abroad—are also facing more diverse, complex, and decentralized terrorist threats. Actors, ranging from designated Foreign Terrorist Organizations—including the Islamic State of Iraq and ash-Sham (ISIS), al-Qa‘ida, other Islamist terrorist groups, and some drug cartels— to terrorists acting alone or in small cells, are likely to pursue, enable, or inspire attacks. Finally, large-scale illegal immigration has strained local and national infrastructure and resources and enabled known or suspected terrorists to cross into the United States.

### Foreign Illicit Drug Actors
Western Hemisphere-based TCOs and terrorists involved in illicit drug production and trafficking bound for the United States endanger the health and safety of millions of Americans and contribute to regional instability. Fentanyl and other synthetic opioids remain the most lethal drugs trafficked into the United States, causing more than 52,000 U.S. deaths in a 12-month period ending in October 2024. This represents a nearly 33 percent decrease in synthetic opioid-related overdose deaths compared to the same reporting time frame the previous year, according to CDC provisional data, and may be because of the availability and accessibility of naloxone.
- Mexico-based TCOs—including the Sinaloa Cartel and the New Generation Jalisco Cartel—remain the dominant producers and suppliers of illicit drugs, including fentanyl, heroin, methamphetamine, and South American-sourced cocaine, for the U.S. market. Last year, official points of entry along the U.S.-Mexico border were the main entry point for illicit drugs, often concealed in passenger vehicles and tractor trailers. However, some TCOs likely will at least temporarily change their smuggling techniques and routes in response to increased U.S. security force presence at the border.
- Since at least 2020, the growth of Mexico-based independent fentanyl producers—actors who are autonomous or semiautonomous from Mexican cartel control—has increasingly fragmented Mexico’s fentanyl trade. Independent fentanyl producers are attracted to the drug’s profitability and the low barriers to market entry, including the ease of synthesizing it using basic lab equipment and few personnel.
- Colombia-based TCOs and illegal armed groups are responsible for producing and exporting the vast majority of cocaine that reaches the United States, some of which is transshipped through Ecuador, contributing to an uptick in violent criminal conflicts that spurs regional migration.
- Mexico-based TCOs are ramping up lethal attacks in Mexico against rivals and Mexican security forces using IEDs, including landmines, mortars, and grenades. In 2024, there were nearly 1,600 attacks on Mexican security forces using IEDs, surging from only three reported attacks between 2020-2021. The sophistication of TCO tactics is reshaping Mexico’s security landscape and has heightened the risk to security forces.
China remains the primary source country for illicit fentanyl precursor chemicals and pill pressing equipment, followed by India. Mexico-based chemical brokers circumvent international controls through mislabeled shipments and the purchase of unregulated dual-use chemicals.

### Transnational Islamic Extremists
ISIS’s most aggressive branches, including ISIS-Khorasan (ISIS-K), and its entrepreneurial plotters will continue to seek to attack the West, including the United States, via online outreach and propaganda aimed at directing, enabling, or inspiring attacks, and could exploit vulnerable travel routes. ISIS has suffered major setbacks and is incapable of holding ground in Iraq and Syria. In recent years, ISIS saw the U.S. defeat of its physical caliphate in 2019, the loss of three overall leaders in 2022, 2023, and 2025, and renewed counterterrorism efforts this year removing leaders driving global operations. Nevertheless, ISIS remains the world’s largest Islamic terrorist organization, has sought to gain momentum from high-profile attacks, and continues to rely on its most capable branches and globally dispersed leadership to weather degradation.
The New Year’s Day attacker in New Orleans was influenced by ISIS propaganda, and separately, an Afghan national was arrested in October for planning an election day attack in the name of ISIS, highlighting ISIS’s ability to reach into the Homeland to both inspire and enable attacks.
- ISIS-K in South Asia is the group’s branch most capable of carrying out external terrorist attacks and maintains the intent to conduct attacks in South and Central Asia, and globally, although its capabilities vary. ISIS-K’s mass casualty attacks in Russia and Iran in 2024, as well as arrests of ISIS-K supporters in Europe and the United States, highlight the group’s expanding capability beyond South Asia and ability to inspire individuals to conduct attacks abroad.
- ISIS will seek to exploit the end of the Asad regime in Syria to reconstitute its attack capabilities, including external plotting, and to free prisoners to rebuild their ranks.
- In 2024, the ISIS spokesman publicly hailed the group’s Africa expansion, highlighting the growing importance of the continent to the group. ISIS-Somalia has doubled in size during the past year, ISIS-West Africa remains the largest branch and leads in numbers of claimed attacks, and ISIS-Sahel is expanding into coastal West Africa.
Al-Qa‘ida maintains its intent to target the United States and U.S. citizens across its global affiliates. Its leaders, some of whom remain in Iran, have tried to exploit anti-Israeli sentiment over the war in Gaza to unite Muslims and encourage attacks against Israel and the United States. Al-Qa‘ida’s media apparatus issued statements from leaders and the group’s affiliates supporting HAMAS and encouraging attacks against Israeli and U.S. targets.
- Al-Qa‘ida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) relaunched its Inspire guide with videos and tweets that encouraged attacks against Jewish targets, the United States, and Europe. Inspire provided instructions for making bombs and placing explosive devices on civilian airliners and gave religious, ideological, historical, and moral justification for such attacks. In addition to trying to inspire attacks worldwide and in the United States, AQAP has the intent to conduct operations in the region and beyond.
- Al-Shabaab—al-Qa‘ida’s largest and wealthiest affiliate—remains focused on attacks in Somalia that further its regional objectives, provides funding to al-Qa‘ida efforts outside of Somalia, and has a burgeoning relationship with the Huthis that could provide access to a new source of more sophisticated weapons, increasing the threat to U.S. interests in the region.
- In West Africa, al-Qa‘ida is expanding its territorial control by gaining inroads with civilians through the provision of services and intimidation, and is threatening urban centers in Burkina Faso and Mali, where U.S. personnel are located.
- Al-Qa‘ida’s affiliate in Syria, Hurras al-Din, probably is exploiting the end of the Asad regime in Syria to strengthen its position. Despite its public announcement that the group was ordered dissolved by al-Qa‘ida’s senior leaders in Iran, Hurras al-Din members were advised not to disarm and instead to prepare for a future conflict, noting their continued fight against the Jews and their supporters.
Other Islamic terrorist groups—including some with historical ties to al-Qa‘ida—continue to pose a threat to the United States primarily in the regions where they operate. Most of these groups generally have targeted local governments in recent years, while Lebanese Hizballah has continued to pursue limited targeting of primarily Israeli and Jewish individuals in and outside of the Middle East. The U.S. Government works with partners worldwide to prevent attacks against U.S. citizens, while watching for indications that these groups may shift intent and build capabilities to pursue transnational attacks.
- In South Asia, Tehrik-e-Taliban (TTP) operations in recent years have focused exclusively on targeting the Government of Pakistan, probably to avoid drawing more counterterrorism pressure. However, TTP’s capabilities, historical ties to al-Qa‘ida, and previous support to operations targeting the United States keep us concerned about the potential future threat. Anti-India groups, including Lashkar-e Tayyiba, similarly concern us in part because of their historical links with al-Qa‘ida.

### Other Transnational Criminals
Profit-motivated transnational criminals are using corruption, intimidation, and enabling technologies to expand their illegal activities into new markets and to diversify their sources of income, which increase their resiliency to U.S. and international law enforcement and financial regulatory efforts. TCOs are defrauding U.S. citizens, businesses, and government programs, while laundering billions of dollars of illicit proceeds through U.S. and international financial institutions. TCOs sometimes outsource money laundering operations and investments to individuals and networks with legal and banking expertise to circumvent financial regulations.
- TCOs and their financial facilitators use a myriad of methods to launder and repatriate illicit proceeds and to evade law enforcement and regulatory pressures. Some TCOs use digital currencies for money laundering and sanctions evasion activities because of its perceived anonymity and weaker international regulations compared to fiat currencies.
Financially motivated cyber criminals continue to prey on inadequately defended U.S. targets, such as healthcare systems and municipal governments, that could have broad impact on the U.S. populace and economy. Others have conducted attacks on critical infrastructure, disrupting utility company business networks or manipulating poorly secured control systems.
- Ransomware actors in mid-2024 attacked the largest payment processor for U.S. healthcare transactions, hampering prescriptions and causing extended delays in accessing electronic health records, patient communications, and medication ordering systems, and forcing some ambulances to divert patients to other hospitals.
- U.S. water infrastructure has become a more common target. In October 2024, criminal actors conducted cyber attacks against both large and small water utilities in the United States, possibly inspired by attacks against water infrastructure by Russian hacktivists and Iranian cyber actors in 2023 that had little effect but drew substantial publicity.
Foreign and U.S.-based human traffickers exploit vulnerable individuals and groups by promising well-paying jobs, confiscating identification documents, coercing victims to engage in risky behaviors and to work in inhumane conditions. TCOs that engage in human trafficking may also engage in other criminal activity threatening the United States, including fraud scams, drug trafficking, and weapons and human smuggling.
- Criminal actors, including Mexico-based TCOs, exploit migrants transiting the Western Hemisphere to the United States through kidnapping for ransom, forced labor, and sex trafficking operations. For example, some victims are forced to repay their smuggling fees through debt bondage once they arrive in the United States. These migrants are typically forced to become domestic servants, to work in the fishing, agriculture, and meat processing industries for low wages, or to work in illegal marijuana grow houses.
The total number of migrants trying to reach the United States has dropped significantly since January 2025 due to a surge in border security enforcement. While key drivers of migration in the Western Hemisphere, such as crime, poverty, and political repression, are likely to continue, heightened border security and mass deportation policies probably serve as a deterrent for migrants seeking to illegally cross U.S. borders.
- Law enforcement encounters with migrants at the U.S.-Mexico border were 14 percent lower in 2024 when compared to the previous year, and U.S. Border Patrol apprehensions along the Southwest border in January 2025 dropped 85 percent from the same period in 2024. Guatemalan, Mexican, and Venezuelan nationals were the most frequently encountered nationals at the U.S.-Mexico border.
- Real or perceived changes to immigration laws or travel polices in transit countries can trigger unexpected spikes. Since 2021, for instance, Nicaragua has removed visa requirements for air travelers from third countries, triggering a surge in U.S.-bound migration from those countries through Nicaragua.

## MAJOR STATE ACTORS
Several major state actors present proximate and enduring threats to the United States and its interests in the world, challenging U.S. military and economic strength, regionally and globally. China stands out as the actor most capable of threatening U.S. interests globally, though it is also more cautious than Russia, Iran, and North Korea about risking its economic and diplomatic image in the world by being too aggressive and disruptive. Growing cooperation among these actors expands the threat, increasing the risk that should hostilities with one occur, it may draw in others.

### China
#### Strategic Overview
President Xi Jinping and the People’s Republic of China (PRC) want to achieve “the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation” by 2049. The PRC will seek to increase its power and influence to shape world events to create an environment favorable to PRC interests, obtain greater U.S. deference to China’s interests, and fend off challenges to its reputation, legitimacy, and capabilities at home and abroad.
- Beijing is deeply suspicious of U.S. intentions and views Washington’s measures against China as part of a concerted, whole-of-government effort, working with U.S. allies and partners, to contain China’s development and rise, undermine CCP rule, and prevent the PRC from achieving its aims. PRC leaders are most concerned about strong unified opposition from the United States and its allies, and are responding, in part, by strengthening ties with partners like Russia and North Korea.
- At the same time, China’s leaders will seek opportunities to reduce tension with Washington when they believe it benefits Beijing, protects its core interests, and buys time to strengthen its position.
The PRC will likely continue posturing to be in a position of advantage in a potential conflict with the United States. The PRC will continue trying to press Taiwan on unification and will continue conducting wide-ranging cyber operations against U.S. targets for both espionage and strategic advantage. China will likely struggle to sufficiently constrain the activities of PRC companies and criminal elements that enable the supply and trafficking of fentanyl precursors and synthetic opioids to the United States, absent greater law enforcement actions.
- China’s military operations to project power over Taiwan and its efforts to assert sovereignty claims in the South and East China Seas occur routinely with confrontations that increase concern of miscalculations potentially leading to conflict.
- China has demonstrated the ability to compromise U.S. infrastructure through formidable cyber capabilities that it could employ during a conflict with the United States.
Beijing will continue to strengthen its conventional military capabilities and strategic forces, intensify competition in space, and sustain its industrial- and technology-intensive economic strategy to compete with U.S. economic power and global leadership.

#### Military
China presents the most comprehensive and robust military threat to U.S. national security. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is fielding a joint force that is capable of full-spectrum warfare to challenge intervention by the United States in a regional contingency, projecting power globally, and securing what Beijing claims is its sovereign territory. A major portion of China’s military modernization efforts is focused on developing counter-intervention capabilities tailored against all aspects of U.S. and allied military operations in the Pacific. Beijing will focus on meeting key modernization milestones by 2027 and 2035, aimed at making the PLA a world-class military by 2049.
- Examples of PLA advances in 2024 include the PLA Navy’s third carrier (CV-18 Fujian) beginning sea trials and likely being ready to enter operational service in 2025. The PLA Rocket Force probably is fielding the DF-27 ballistic missile, with a hypersonic glide vehicle payload option and an estimated range of between 5,000 and 8,000 kilometers. The PLA ground forces are also fielding its most advanced multiple rocket launcher, the PCH191, increasing its long-range, precision strike capability.
- The PLA has improved its force structure, readiness, and training. The PLA probably has made particular progress in critical areas, such as modernizing key ground forces, expanding its navy with more modern combatants, and fielding a wide variety of new missile systems; it has also improved its electronic warfare (EW) capabilities.
The PLA has the capability to conduct long-range precision-strikes with conventional weapons against the Homeland’s periphery in the Western Pacific, including Guam, Hawaii, and Alaska. China has developed a range of ballistic and cruise missiles with conventional payloads that can be delivered from its mainland as well as by air and sea, including by nuclear-powered submarines. China may be exploring development of conventionally-armed intercontinental range missile systems, which, if developed and fielded, would allow China to threaten conventional strikes against targets in the continental United States.
The PLA will continue to pursue the establishment of overseas military installations and access agreements to project power and protect China’s interests abroad. Beijing may also pursue a mixture of military logistics models, including preferred access to commercial infrastructure abroad, exclusive PLA logistics facilities with pre-positioned supplies co-located with commercial infrastructure, and bases with stationed forces, to meet its overseas military logistics needs.
China is using complex, whole-of-government campaigns featuring coercive military, economic, and influence operations short of war to assert its positions and strength against others, reserving more destructive tools for full-scale conflict. Beijing will likely expand these campaigns to advance unification with Taiwan, project power in East Asia, and reverse perceived U.S. hegemony.
- Beijing has pushed back against U.S. military operations, such as reconnaissance and bomber flights, freedom of navigation operations, and exercises around PRC borders and maritime claims. The PLA regularly intercepts and shadows U.S. forces and sometimes conducts unsafe maneuvers in their vicinity.

#### Cyber
The PRC remains the most active and persistent cyber threat to U.S. government, private-sector, and critical infrastructure networks. The PRC’s campaign to preposition access on critical infrastructure for attacks during crisis or conflict, tracked publicly as Volt Typhoon, and its more recently identified compromise of U.S. telecommunications infrastructure, also referred to as Salt Typhoon, demonstrates the growing breadth and depth of the PRC’s capabilities to compromise U.S. infrastructure.

#### Taiwan and Maritime Flashpoints
In 2025, Beijing will likely apply stronger coercive pressure against Taiwan and perceived increases in U.S. support to the island to further its goal of eventual unification. The PRC calls for a peaceful unification with Taiwan to resolve the Civil War that drove Taiwan’s separation, even as it threatens to use force to compel unification if necessary and counter what it sees as a U.S. attempt to use Taiwan to undermine China’s rise.
A conflict between China and Taiwan would disrupt U.S. access to trade and semiconductor technology critical to the global economy. Even without U.S. involvement in such a conflict, there would likely be significant and costly consequences to U.S. and global economic and security interests.
Beijing is working to isolate Taipei by pressuring states to downgrade diplomatic ties and support China’s unification goal. Since 2016, Taiwan’s official diplomatic relationships have dropped from 22 to only 12, and several of the remaining ones are vulnerable to Chinese pressure.
China is advancing military capabilities for a cross-Strait campaign while also using its armed forces to exert steady state pressure on Taiwan. The PLA probably is making steady but uneven progress on capabilities it would use in an attempt to seize Taiwan and deter—and if necessary, defeat—U.S. military intervention, and it is intensifying the scope, size, and pace of operations around Taiwan.
Beijing will continue to pressure Taipei with economic coercion and probably will increase it if it sees Taiwan taking steps toward formal independence. It could suspend preferential tariff terms, selectively ban Taiwan imports to China, and arbitrarily enforce regulations.
Beijing’s aggressive efforts to assert sovereignty claims in the South and East China Seas are heightening tensions that could trigger a broader conflict.
- In 2024, PRC tactics in the South China Sea led to the loss of the Philippines’ unilateral access to some disputed areas, and forced talks between Beijing and Manila in which the Philippines agreed to concessions in exchange for access. However, Manila is unlikely to relinquish its claims, creating potential for escalation by either side.
- Tension between China and Japan over the Senkaku Islands last flared up a decade ago. Since then, Chinese ships have remained in proximity of the disputed islands, occasionally entering the territorial zone, and driving responses from Japan’s Self-Defense Force to monitor the activity.
- If Beijing believed that a major conflict with Washington was imminent, it could consider aggressive cyber operations against U.S. critical infrastructure and military assets. Such strikes would be designed to deter U.S. military action by impeding U.S. decision-making, inducing societal panic, and interfering with the deployment of U.S. forces.

#### Economics
The PRC seeks to compete with the United States as the leading economic power in the world. To do so, the strategy calls for a centralized, state-directed, and nationally resourced approach to dominating global markets and strategic supply chains, limiting foreign competitors, and making other nations dependent on China. PRC leaders are applying the same strategy to bolster China’s position and become more globally dominant in critical supply chains, both in upstream inputs it can provide more cheaply than others and in downstream production at wider scale.
- China’s weak domestic demand, coupled with its industrial policies, such as manufacturing subsidies, have enabled a surge in cheap Chinese exports in sectors such as steel, harming U.S. competitors and fueling a record PRC trade surplus.
- China’s dominance in key supply chains enables its use of economic coercion against countries that adopt policies Beijing opposes. Beijing is developing an institutionalized framework enabling more assertive and centrally controlled trade retaliation. PRC leaders are using ostensibly unofficial or technical trade and investment barriers, administrative regulations, logistics, and symbolic sanctions in a targeted way against individuals, firms, and sectors, in parallel with messages to warn and deter.
- PRC leaders appear to be preparing for more economic friction with the United States, and probably are weighing options with the new U.S. administration while looking for leverage and other ways to prevent a major escalation and decoupling.
China’s dominance in the mining and processing of several critical materials is a particular threat, providing it with the ability to restrict quantities and affect global prices. Beijing has shown a willingness to restrict global access to its mineral resources—sometimes in response to geopolitical disputes—as with its banning of exports to the United States of metals used in semiconductor manufacturing, such as gallium, germanium, and antimony in December 2024 in response to U.S. export controls on advanced semiconductors and chip-making equipment. Other examples include when the PRC temporarily stopped rare earth element exports to Japan in 2010, and Beijing’s creation of new laws codifying its authority to restrict mineral exports. A prolonged cessation in supplies controlled by China could disrupt critical inputs needed for U.S. industry and technological advancements.
China has similar aims in global shipping and resource access, including in the Arctic, where melting sea ice is creating opportunities for expanded maritime transport and energy exploitation, especially along the Northern Sea Route (NSR) off Russia’s coast. China seeks access to the Arctic’s potentially vast natural resources, including oil, gas, and minerals, even though China is not among the eight Arctic countries that control territory in the region. Beijing seeks to normalize more direct and efficient maritime shipping routes to Russia and other Northern Hemisphere areas, as a way to fuel its economic growth and energy security and reduce its dependence on Middle East energy. China has gradually increased engagement with Greenland mainly through mining projects, infrastructure development, and scientific research projects. Despite less active engagement right now, China’s long-term goal is to expand access to Greenland’s natural resources, as well as to use the same access as a key strategic foothold for advancing China’s broader and economic aims in the Arctic.

#### Technology
China is using an aggressive, whole-of-government approach, combined with state direction of the private sector, to become a global S&T superpower, surpass the United States, promote self-reliance, and achieve further economic, political, and military gain. Beijing has prioritized technology sectors such as advanced power and energy, AI, biotechnology, quantum information science, and semiconductors, further challenging U.S. efforts to protect critical technologies by tailoring restrictions narrowly to address national security concerns. China is accelerating its S&T progress through a range of licit and illicit means, to include investments, intellectual property acquisition and theft, cyber operations, talent recruitment, international collaborations, and sanctions evasion.
- Some forecasts indicate China’s technology sectors will account for as much as 23 percent of its gross domestic product by 2026, more than doubling since 2018. In addition to private funding, the PRC government is investing hundreds of billions of dollars in priority technologies, such as AI, microelectronics, and biotechnologies, in pursuit of its self-reliance goals.
China almost certainly has a multifaceted, national-level strategy designed to displace the United States as the world’s most influential AI power by 2030. China is experiencing a boom in generative AI with the rapid emergence of a large number of PRC-developed models, and is broadly pursuing AI for smart cities, mass surveillance, healthcare, S&T innovation, and intelligent weapons. Chinese AI firms are already world leaders in voice and image recognition, video analytics, and mass surveillance technologies. The PLA probably plans to use large language models (LLMs) to generate information deception attacks, create fake news, imitate personas, and enable attack networks. China has also announced initiatives to bolster international support for its vision of AI governance.
- China has stolen hundreds of gigabytes of intellectual property from companies in Asia, Europe, and North America in an effort to leapfrog over technological hurdles, with as much as 80 percent of U.S. economic espionage cases as of 2021 involving PRC entities.
China also sees biotechnology as critical to becoming a dominant economic power and intends to grow its domestic bioeconomy to $3.3 trillion this year. Beijing is investing heavily in collecting health and genetic data both at home and abroad in pursuit of these goals, and has shown it can be globally competitive in certain low-cost, high-volume commodities, such as biomanufacturing and genetic sequencing. Beijing has identified genetic data as a national strategic resource and is expanding state control over the country’s gene banks and other genetic repositories, positioning it to potentially lead in precision medicine and agricultural biotechnology applications.
China has made progress in producing advanced 7-nanometer (nm) semiconductor chips for cryptocurrency mining and cellular devices using previously acquired deep ultraviolet (DUV) lithography equipment, but will face challenges achieving high-quality, high-volume production of these chips without access to extreme ultraviolet lithography tools. PRC researchers also continue to explore applying advanced patterning techniques to DUV machines to produce semiconductor chips as small as 3nm. China leads the world in legacy logic semiconductor (28nm and up) production, accounting for 39.3 percent of global capacity, and is expected to add more capacity than the rest of the world combined through 2028. These legacy chips are vital to producing automobiles, consumer electronics, home appliances, factory automation, broadband, and many military and medical systems.

#### WMD
China remains intent on modernizing, diversifying, and expanding its nuclear posture. China’s nuclear weapons and advanced delivery systems pose a direct threat to the Homeland and are capable of delivering catastrophic damage to the United States and threatening U.S. military forces here and abroad.
China most likely possesses capabilities relevant to chemical and biological warfare (CBW) that pose a threat to U.S., allied, and partner forces as well as civilian populations.

#### Biosecurity
China’s approach to and role in global biological, medical, and other health-related global priorities present unique challenges to the United States and the world The COVID-19 pandemic that ultimately led to the death of more than one million Americans—and multiples more worldwide—began in China, which Beijing still refuses to acknowledge. China’s strict censorship and repression of free speech prevented doctors treating the earliest of patients in Wuhan from warning the world of a far more serious contagion than Beijing wanted told, slowing the world’s preparedness and response. To this day, Beijing refuses to fully cooperate with the rest of the international community trying to definitively pinpoint the precise cause of the disease so it can head off and prepare for any new disease.
Regarding COVID-19 origins, IC agencies have continued to evaluate new information from classified and open sources, revisit previous reporting, and consult with diverse technical experts to increase our understanding of the cause of the pandemic. These efforts have led CIA to assess that a research-related hypothesis is more likely than a natural origin hypothesis.
The other hypothesis for COVID-19—natural origin—includes many scenarios in which humans could have been infected with SARS-CoV-2—the virus that causes COVID-19—or a close progenitor through exposure to wild or domestic animals. China is home to a diverse body of naturally occurring coronaviruses found in a wide geographic area, and there is precedence for these viruses to emerge within human populations far from reservoir locations. For example, the coronavirus that is the closest known relative to SARS-CoV—the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)—probably originated in Yunnan Province, according to scientific studies, even though the first SARS outbreak detected in humans in 2003 occurred in Guangdong Province, hundreds of miles away.
- The research-related incident hypothesis also considers a broad range of potential initial human-infection scenarios from events in research facilities, such as government or university laboratories, to research-related activities in the field, such as collecting samples from wild animals.
The PRC’s dominance in pharmaceutical and medical supply production combined with lower quality safety and environmental standards than those of the United States positions Beijing to potentially restrict such exports for leverage over Washington and others in trade or security disputes. The PRC plays an increasingly important role in supplying pharmaceuticals and related medical supplies to the United States, as well as the rest of the world.
- U.S. imports of Chinese pharmaceuticals—defined as medicines, vaccines, blood, organic cultures, bandages, and organs—grew almost five-fold between 2020 and 2022 alone, from $2.1 billion to $10.3 billion.
- The PRC also might look to uniquely provide such supplies and medical aid to countries, more cheaply and at scales competitors cannot match, as a way to boost its global influence at the expense of the United States. The PRC’s “vaccine diplomacy” during the COVID-19 pandemic—it provided vaccines to 83 countries—was driven at least in part by geopolitical considerations, such as currying favor for a new port in Burma.

#### Space
China has eclipsed Russia as a space leader and is poised to compete with the United States as the world’s leader in space by deploying increasingly capable interconnected multi-sensor systems and working toward ambitious scientific and strategic goals. China has achieved global coverage in some of its intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) constellations and world-class status in all but a few space technologies.
- China’s Beidou constellation is a world-class position, navigation, and timing capability that competes with U.S. GPS and Europe’s Galileo service. The PLA ISR architecture and satellite communications are areas the PLA continues to improve upon to close the perceived gap between itself and the U.S. military.
- China’s successful lunar sample return mission in June 2024 contributes to Beijing’s technological prowess and national prestige while supporting its effort to land astronauts on the Moon by 2030 and establish the first lunar base by 2035.
- China’s commercial space sector is growing quickly with aspiration to be a major global competitor to U.S. and European space companies. For example, China launched the first set of satellites in its low Earth orbit (LEO) proliferated constellation last year for its own satellite Internet service to compete with Western commercial satellite Internet services.
Counterspace operations will be integral to PLA military campaigns, and China has counterspace-weapons capabilities intended to target U.S. and allied satellites. China already has fielded ground-based counterspace capabilities, including EW systems, directed energy weapons (DEWs), and antisatellite (ASAT) missiles intended to disrupt, damage, and destroy target satellites.
- China also has conducted orbital technology demonstrations, which, while not counterspace weapons tests, prove its ability to operate future space-based counterspace weapons. China has also conducted on-orbit satellite inspections of other satellites, which probably would be representative of the tactics required for some counterspace attacks.

#### Malign Influence Activities
Beijing will continue to expand its coercive and subversive malign influence activities to weaken the United States internally and globally, as well as counter what Beijing sees as a U.S.-led campaign to tarnish China’s global relations and overthrow the CCP. Through these efforts, the PRC seeks to suppress critical views and critics of China within the United States and worldwide, and sow doubts in U.S. leadership and strength. Beijing is likely to feel emboldened to use malign influence more regularly in coming years, particularly as it fields AI to improve its capabilities and avoid detection.
- PRC actors have increased their capabilities to conduct covert influence operations and disseminate disinformation. For example, pro-China online actors in 2024 used AI-generated news anchors and fake social media accounts with AI-generated profile pictures to sow divisions on issues such as drug use, immigration, and abortion.

### Russia
#### Strategic Overview
Russia views its ongoing war in Ukraine as a proxy conflict with the West, and its objective to restore Russian strength and security in its near abroad against perceived U.S. and Western encroachment has increased the risks of unintended escalation between Russia and NATO. The resulting heightened and prolonged political-military tensions between Moscow and Washington, coupled with Russia’s growing confidence in its battlefield superiority and defense industrial base and increased risk of nuclear war, create both urgency and complications for